Elsi, the unusual Farm MaidJeremias GotthelfSwitzerland is so bountifully blessed with beautiful valleys that no one could possibly name them all. No schoolbook even offers a complete list. One of the richest, if not one of the most beautiful, is the valley in which Heimiswyl lies and which empties into the right bank of the Bernese Emme above the town of Burgdorf. The mountains surrounding the valley are neither especially tall nor unusually shaped. They are simply mighty Emmental hills, bright green at the base and dark green at the top, circled by meadows and farm land below and covered with tall pines above. The valley, which juts up against a larger valley in the northwest, does not offer an extended view into the distance. The Alps, therefore, can be seen only from the two summits which dominate the valley, yet from these vantage points they show themselves in all their brilliant splendor against the southern sky. The water which flows from the rocks is marvelous, the lush meadows are unexcelled, and the soil is ideally suited for any kind of crop. The valley is rich and beautiful and the houses adorning it are charming. Anyone wishing to feast his eyes on the famous Emmental farmhouses will find a large number of excellent specimens in this valley.In one of these stately farmhouses lived in the year 1796 a farm maid called Elsi Schindler, although that apparently was not her real name. She was a strange girl and no one knew who she was nor where she was from. Late one spring evening there had been a knock at the door and when the farmer looked out, he saw a tall girl with a bundle under her arm standing outside. She asked if she could spend the night, as was in keeping with the long established custom that any penniless traveler, or anyone else who wanted to avoid staying at an inn, could ask to spend the night at a farmhouse. That person would then not only receive free lodging, either in the barn with the animals or in a warm bed, but would also be served supper and breakfast and perhaps even be given a penny or two for the road. There are farmhouses in the Canton of Bern which daily show such hospitality as would rival that of the Orient and which seldom see a night go by without an overnight guest in the house.The farmer told the girl to come in and, since they were eating supper, asked her to join them. At a word from the farmer's wife, the womenfolk squeezed together on the bench and the overnighter, as such guests are called, was asked to sit down with them at the further end. They continued eating, but for a few minutes there was little conversation, for everyone felt compelled to look at the girl. She was not only tall and well-built, but had a pretty face too. Her face was tanned, yet it had regular features and was rather large, with big, sad eyes and a small mouth showing white teeth. There was something strange in her manner, which was especially striking in an overnighter, so that the folks at the table couldn't get their fill of looking at her. There was an undeniable air of nobility about the girl which could not have been falsely assumed. It seemed to them that she sat there at the end of the bench as if she were the master's daughter, or at any rate someone who was used to giving orders and running things.Thus they were all surprised when, after the farmer got around to asking, "Where are you from and where are you headed?" she replied that she was a poor girl whose parents had died and that she was going down to the villages to look for work as a maid. This statement led to a good many more questions, for everyone found her story hard to believe. And they were all the more amazed when the farmer said, more to test her out than in earnest, "If you're serious, you can stay here; I happen to need a maid just now," and the girl answered that would suit her just fine. Then she wouldn't have to run around looking any farther, she added. None of the people there could believe that the girl actually wanted to be a maid.And yet that's how it really was and the girl was dead serious, although it's true that she wasn't born to that station in life. She was the daughter of a rich miller from a good, long-established line, from one of those families of which folks used to say, back when money wasn't put out at interest, that at inheritances and at estate divisions their money was not counted but rather measured out with a scoop. But in the last half of the previous century a boundless pride and arrogance had crept into the family and many of them had become as wanton as the prodigal son. That was back when rich farmers' sons competed with one another to see who could throw talers farthest across the Emme River. It was back when a rich farmer, who had twelve mares grazing in his field, had a proclamation cried out at a crowded market: whoever wanted to be the Boldhouse Farmer's guest for dinner should be at the Stag Inn at twelve noon. The girl's father had been just such a man. Here he would treat a whole roomful of people to food and drink, there he would thrash all the guests at an inn, drive them away and then on the following morning be obliged to pay damages and smart money to a dozen or more. He was capable of going through some two hundred talers at a single militia training session or of throwing away just as much at market. When on occasion he settled down at a tavern in all seriousness, he would sit there for a week at a time and anyone who came would have to join the rich miller in a drink or be thrashed for refusing. One can exhaust a gold mine in this way and the miller gradually became poor, despite his poor wife's valiant efforts to stave off poverty and to hold things together.She saw the end coming far in advance, yet out of false pride hid how things really stood from neighbors. Her relatives had been against her marriage, for she was of a good family who viewed with disdain the wanton behavior of the miller. She had held firm, hoping that the miller would reform, but this hope had been dashed--as is so many a poor bride's--and things had gotten worse instead of better. She therefore could not now go complaining to others. Although folks wondered about how long the miller could keep up his way of life, no one perceived the real state of affairs until the poor wife, her heart eaten up with grief, bowed her head and died. Now there was no one there to keep everything in order and to hide their troubles. They soon ran short of cash, and when that occurs, the creditors come running, one after another, like vultures descending on a carcass, for none wants to be last. An endless series of debts came to light and bankruptcy was declared. The family lost everything they had. The rich miller turned into a penniless beggar and had to go from house to house for many a year, for Go. granted him a long life. For a rich man to become a poor vagabond and to, have to go begging the rest of his life is just punishment for someone, who has caused his family shame and infamy and has robbed them of more than just worldly goods. Such a man is also a living example for wanton youth to learn where reckless behavior usually leads.The miller had two sons who had earlier sought refuge from their father's brutality by joining a foreign army. There was only one daughter who was the prettiest but also the proudest miller's daughter far and wide. She had scarcely taken part in the usual pleasures and occupations of youth. Such things simply did not appeal to her, though everyone said it was her pride that prevented her from joining in. She had been pursued by droves of suitors, but each had pleased her less than his predecessor. Not a one had received a word of encouragement. As a consequence, every one of them became her personal enemy and decried her haughtiness.There was, however, one area where her pride did not stand in the way, namely in working and in giving a helping hand to man or beast in need. From an early age she had gotten up before dawn and had done every kind of work and done it well. Often her parents had tried to hold her back, forbidding her to do this or that chore because they thought such work inappropriate for a rich miller's daughter. Then she would simply do her work secretly. And when her ailing mother would wake up in the night she would often see her daughter sitting by her bed, although her mother had told a maid to sit up with her and had ordered her daughter to go to bed.Then when her mother died and the family's troubles began, it was as if lightning had struck. The daughter didn't weep or complain, but seemed to have been struck dumb. Folks shuddered to see her, for she was often spotted standing on a high cliff, on the edge of deep water, or up next to the millstones in the stream. Everyone said that there would surely be a tragedy, yet no one tried to prevent it in any way. Everyone thought and many said out loud that it would serve Elsi right, for pride came before the fall and the same thing should happen to all those who acted as proud as Elsi. When she disappeared the morning on which the bankruptcy inventory was to be taken, everyone said: there you had it; they had said long ago that it would come to this end. She was sought in all the streams and among the pines and when she was nowhere to be found, a few folks hinted that there was a certain someone who came and took people away, especially proud and haughty folk. And for many years afterwards proud girls were told that there was a certain someone who liked proud folk best of all and that they should remember the rich miller's daughter who had disappeared so completely that neither hide nor hair of her was seen again.Nothing so bad, however, had happened to Elsi, although she did have such thoughts in the very first days after the bankruptcy. It seemed to her as if her heart were being torn in two and as if millstone after millstone were being piled on top of her soul. There was an anger and a shame in her which burnt as if she had been in the middle of hell. She could see that everyone gloated over her misfortune and even if she had been offered all the riches of the earth, she would not have been capable of giving a single human being a friendly greeting.A higher hand, however, was watching over the poor child and saw to it that strength grew out of her pride, a strength which helped Elsi reach a nobler decision. In this way God often causes the sweetest fruit to grow out of the seed which men have scorned. The girl's pride was actually an in-born disgust of everything low or degrading. Anyone who had once seen her pray would have seen how she could humble herself before that which is in no way low or degrading. But she didn't understand her feelings and wasn't able to control their outward expression; thus she acted like a rich miller's daughter for whom no one in the world was good enough. After the bankruptcy she wanted to get away but recoiled at the thought of suicide. She didn't want to have that infamy hanging over her family and didn't want to destroy her soul along with her body, yet for a long time she could think of no other way out.Then, in the still of night, just when she was seeking an answer most anxiously, God revealed it to her. She would go far away and in some out-of-the-way place look for a position as a common farm maid. There, her real identity unknown, she would pass her days in tranquility and devoted service as long as God granted her life. When strong-willed folk see what needs to be done, they just go ahead and do it. So Elsi set off that same night, leaving behind all her fancy trappings and taking only what was suitable for a maid. She didn't say a word to anyone and, taking lonely byways, she left her native valley. For many a day she went this way and that; one place she'd not like the looks of, another place she'd reject because there were people there who knew her. And so she came to the Heimiswyl Valley. There, hidden away in that pleasant valley, she felt comfortable and so sought and found work.The farmer's wife did not at first like the fact that Elsi had been taken on so suddenly. She upbraided her husband for saddling her with so dainty a maid who would probably be too haughty to take orders. The farmer placated her with the assurance that the girl had not, after all, been hired for a specific length of time but could be sent away if she didn't work out. Nor was the hiring of the girl to the liking of the other hired help. For a long while they circled around Elsi like chickens around a strange bird sitting in their farmyard.But soon the mistress recognized that in Elsi she possessed a jewel such as she had never had before and one whose value cannot be measured in terms of money alone. Not only did Elsi do her chores faultlessly, she also thought on her own about what needed to be done and did it quickly without having to be told. When the mistress looked around to see what needed to be done, everything had already been done as if by magic, as if elves had been at work. Now it is indescribably delightful to a farmer's wife when she doesn't have to think of everything herself and be constantly looking after this or that, but instead can delegate the thinking as well as the working. But one can seldom find a maid to whom such responsibility can be given. Many people seem born incapable of this kind of thinking whereas others always have an alert mind, guided and watched over by an ability to think and reason clearly. And out of these few, there are fewer still who become hired help or who work for long in that capacity, for such people are born masters.Elsi also wasn't a chatterbox and didn't have dealings with anyone outside the house, so that what she saw or heard she kept to herself. No neighboring woman heard the least bit of gossip from her, no matter how the woman tried. She was not on familiar terms with the other hired help. She had received the farm hands' crude jokes in a way which prevented them from ever trying them on her again, for Elsi possessed a strength such is seldom seen among women. Yet the farm hands did not dislike her. She didn't report anyone's doings to the farmer or his wife, and whenever she could do a farm hand or maid a service, she would spare no effort to do it. Often she would silently do the work which someone had forgotten and for which, if the farmer or his wife had seen it, that person would have been severely rebuked.In this way Elsi became the right arm of the farm mistress, who when her heart was heavy, went to Elsi to unburden it. But she took it amiss that Elsi did not return her confidence. She was of course curious about who Elsi was and where she was from, for she could easily see, especially from Elsi's habit of thinking for herself and doing things unbidden, that she hadn't been a maid all her life, but had been used to giving orders. She therefore made many a pointed hint and finally asked Elsi outright. Elsi sighed but said nothing and stood her ground although the farm mistress tried her best to wheedle it out of her, using every tactic known to women, from tenderness to stinging mockery. Nowadays the mistress could have simply asked to see her papers and in particular her birth certificate, which one must produce or be in violation of the law. Back then no one thought of such a thing, so that a person in the Canton of Bern could have remained incognito his whole life long unless he did something to attract the attention of the police.As much as this upset the woman, it did not destroy her confidence in Elsi. Whenever she could not go herself to the Burgdorf Market on a Thursday, for the Heimiswyl women even back then went there every Thursday, she would send Elsi with whatever there was to sell and with orders to buy what was needed. And Elsi carried everything out very faithfully and was home before she was missed, for she never went into an inn, either on market days or on Sundays, no matter how much folks, both young and old, tried to coax her. At first everyone thought her refusal was just the usual coyness and they tried to push, pull and badger her in, as was the local custom. But it was all to no avail; Elsi firmly refused to go. Folks were astonished at this, for no one had ever heard of such a girl, who would not let herself be persuaded into an inn for a glass of wine. In the end they gave up their attempts and gained respect for her.Once the menfolk gain respect for a pretty girl, she will by and by be free from the attention of those who consider girls flowers with whom they can do as they please. But then those fellows come running who are in earnest and who want a proper as well as a pretty wife. At that time there were many such men in the Heimiswyl Valley. They were all of the opinion that they would not find a wife in the Valley to suit them. Of course, a majority of them wanted not only a pretty and proper wife, but a rich one, too. Yet it's well known how it is with young people, that they change their way of calculating daily and give the highest rating to whatever they happen to find in that girl most to their liking at that moment. Therefore Elsi was more in danger of attracting their attention with each passing day. They talked to her on the way to church and on the way to market. At night they knocked on her bedroom window, talking nonsense, and when they were through with what they had to say, they started over again from the beginning. But it was all in vain. Elsi would answer them on the highway in a friendly way but would not have anything to do with the ones who came to her window. And when, as happens often enough in the Canton of Bern, her window was smashed in or the outside door to her room knocked down, it did not help her would-be lovers in the least. She would either put up a staunch resistance and chase the intruder out of her room or would climb through the stove pipe down into the room below, where no window-climbing suitor would follow.Among those who were looking for a pretty and proper wife was a farmer who was no longer altogether young. No girl had thus far seemed pretty and proper enough to suit him and even when he thought he had found one, all the girl needed to do was to have a friendly chat with another lad and he was through with her and wouldn't look at her again. The farmer's name was Christen. He had inherited a splendid farm from his mother while his father worked another farm with his second wife and numerous children. Christen was handsome and proud. There was no more handsome gunner to be seen at militia training, no more hard-working farmer at work and no more courageous man in a fight. Yet he had gradually withdrawn from the world and its strife. He no longer took an interest in girls, who were the chief source of discord back then--now it's money--for he did not believe any were capable of being faithful. At an inn a fight could be raging all around him with glasses shattering next to him and chair legs breaking and he would not budge from behind his glass of wine. Only occasionally at the Burgdorf Market when the Heimiswylers were engaged in battle with their archenemies, the Krauchthalers, would Christen bestir himself. And then it was not until message after message came entreating him for Heaven's sake to come that he would stand up and with a few mighty blows help his besieged comrades regain the upper hand.As beseems a young farmer, Christen had never had any dealings with farm maids. Yet Elsi had something so different about her that she was not considered a maid; everyone agreed that she was not just someone off the street. Just for that reason, folks tried all the more to find out where she was from, but in vain. That no one was able to discover her identity was partly chance and partly due to the fact that travel back then was still very limited and towns which lay ten hours apart were less known to one another than those nowadays which are separated by a distance five times as great. As is always the case with mysteries, tall tales about Elsi's past sprang up and the women of the area passed around many a rumor about her. Some folks made her out to be an escaped criminal; others said she was a wife who had run away from her husband; another group took her for a farmer's daughter who was fleeing from a forced marriage; and still others claimed she was an illegitimate sister of the farmer's wife or the farmer's illegitimate daughter who was being smuggled into the house under the guise of a maid. But since Elsi steadfastly continued in her quiet ways, almost like a star in the firmament, all these rumors were eventually discounted. The secretive, unusual aura about her remained, and it was this which attracted the young men and especially Christen. His farm was not far from that of Elsi's master and in fact their land almost touched, so that when Christen went down into the Valley, he had to pass by the other farmer's house. At first he behaved very matter-of-factly towards Elsi. When he chanced to meet her, he spoke to her and would perhaps go join her under the broad roof of the well as she was washing potatoes or doing some other chore there. Elsi answered him in a friendly way, one word would lead to another and they often ended up talking together a good long while, which was something other folks noticed more than they did themselves.Christen, too, wanted to treat Elsi to a glass of wine when he met her in Burgdorf or when they passed the Heimiswyl Inn on their way home. Yet Elsi would no more go with him into an inn than she would with anyone else. At first that made Christen bitterly angry. He was of the opinion that it was an honor for a maid to have a young farmer offer her a glass of wine and that it reflected poorly on her to refuse. When he saw, however, that she acted the same towards all the other lads, and heard that she had yet to enter an inn since she had been there, he began to like her for it and, indeed, his feelings grew stronger as time went by. There was a girl, he thought, who could be true and wouldn't go flirting with every fool in pants and wouldn't go anywhere with anybody just to get a free meal. The fellow who had someone like her as a wife could send her to church or to market or leave her at home all alone without having to worry that someone else would come and take his place. And yet, whenever he met Elsi somewhere he couldn't resist inviting her to have wine with him or telling her that the following Sunday he was going to such and such a place and that she could come along. And every time he was angry that she refused.It's a funny thing with menfolk and womenfolk. As long as they are single and are just courting or engaged, women are as charming as it is possible to be and men are so generous that it makes your head spin. And this is as true in the city as it is in the country. A single lad, for example, will order up a roast or at least a cake and, even if it means selling a pound of his own flesh to do it, will order red wine to go with it or even, as is often the case today, French champagne. It seems he can't treat his girl to wine often enough. He acts as if he were as rich as a king and as if his father could hardly find a place to sit down at home amongst all the bags of money. Once such a fellow is married, however, this magnanimity comes to an end and the more generous he has been up until then, the tighter he becomes afterwards. Whenever his wife wants to accompany him to an inn, there is a battle and when his wife, perhaps once a year, emerges victorious, her husband will needle her over it for the next seven years. The same is true of a girl's charm once she is married. Both character traits go the way of all flesh, as they say, although it's difficult to decide if it's first the husband who gives up his generosity or his wife who loses her charm. It must just be the same as with the ham that's used to catch mice. Once the mouse is caught and the ham eaten, no new ham grows back where the old has disappeared.It is apparently for the same reason that fellows put out ham for mice that the majority of fathers in the city promise their daughters' suitors a bag of money, although it is often never delivered. In the country folks aren't so advanced and particularly weren't at that time in Heimiswyl.In spite of his anger, Christen began to like Elsi more and more, and the conviction began to establish itself firmly in his mind that it was she he wanted as a wife or no wife at all. He took many a walk on her account and often visited with her master in the evening. And he was more and more often to be found outside her window at night. Elsi, however, never let him in and each time Christen vowed that he would never return. Yet he could not keep to this resolution. When she heard his voice, Elsi would come to the window and talk to him, but that was all. The sweeter he talked, the quieter she became; when he talked of marriage she would end the conversation; and when he confided in her and talked of his prospects in life and asked about hers, she would shut the window. Then Christen would become angry. He did not suspect what a struggle was going on inside Elsi.At first Elsi had enjoyed living in the Valley, being alone and not having to put up with her father. Yet gradually the solitude itself began to oppress her, which goes to show that man must always have some burden to bear. Not to have anyone in all the world in whom one can confide and on whom one can rely in time of need is a sorrow which causes many a heart to bleed. When Christen became friendly with Elsi, it greatly warmed her heart. Christen offered a way back into her old position in life, a possibility of going from farm maid to mistress. Yet in order to marry she would have to say who she was and where she was from. And she would have to tell the people from her native village where she had gone. These were things she just could not do. She was certain that Christen would lose interest in her once he learned who she was, and that was something she felt she could not bear. She knew too well what kind of reputation her father had up and down the countryside and that folks in the Valley would far rather have the daughter of some penniless fellow than the daughter of a family whose shame was on everyone's lips. How many a poor girl rejoices over a rich husband for her parents' sake because she hopes to be able to bring some sunshine into their dark lives when they are old. This is a joy the daughter of ignoble parents does not share, for she brings nothing but shame into her new family. She can help her wayward parents overcome neither their shame nor their vices. Elsi knew that her father was beyond help. Giving him money was like pouring oil on a fire; having him live with her would not have been possible and certainly she could not demand such a thing of her husband. That is the curse which hovers over such parents, that they become the poison of their children's lives. Their bad name remains, like a ghost, when they themselves have long been rotting in their graves; it hangs on to their children's coattails and appears as a messenger of doom whenever happiness and better days seem to be within reach.The poor girl underwent a terrible struggle in her heart, but she simply could not reveal her secret. If Christen had ever seen how this struggle forced tears from Elsi's eyes and how she sighed and prayed, he would not have been so angry but would have increased his love and attention so much that he would perhaps have discovered the secret. But what goes on inside of us God has with good reason hidden from view. Elsi often wanted to leave in the dead of night and disappear again as she had done in her old village. Yet she couldn't do it. She told herself that the people there would speak badly of her and say she had run off like a thief in the night or something still worse. Yet it was something else which kept her there, something which she wouldn't admit to herself. The girl suffered terribly; happiness was so near yet a specter was there keeping her from it for all eternity. No one else saw this specter and, since she couldn't cry out for help, she had to put up with bitter reproaches from people who thought she was throwing away her chance at happiness out of arrogance and haughtiness.Christen was not alone in reproaching Elsi. Her mistress did too, for she saw Christen's love and did not, unlike many a farmer's wife, begrudge her maid such happiness, for Elsi was as dear to her as a sister. On such occasions she could become quite bitter over Elsi's lack of trust and, indeed, could sometimes not help hinting that Elsi must have something terrible to hide if she would not even confide it to her mistress, who only wished her happiness. This made Elsi bitterly unhappy and she looked wretched. Yet she could not leave, nor could she chase away the specter which stood between her and happiness.Then it happened that her mistress took Elsi along to Burgdorf on old New Year's Day. This is the day on which the new year fell according to the old Russian calendar and which, like old Christmas Day, used to be celebrated widely in the rural areas, although now it is observed only in certain mountain districts. The day fell on a market day, so that all the more people were there. The young people amused themselves merrily while the older folk talked about the French, who, it was rumored, had thoughts of invading Switzerland. But if they did, folks said, the Swiss would give them a thrashing till they cried out for mercy. With great caution a few folks muttered something about liberty and equality and the strict rule of the Bernese patricians. They did well to say such things with caution, since for folks from the mountains a Frenchman and the Devil were pretty much one and the same.When the farm mistress had completed her business, she steered towards her favorite inn, for she was not about to leave Burgdorf, especially on old New Year's, without having something to eat and drink. She wanted to take Elsi along, but Elsi did not want to go. She excused herself, saying that she didn't need anything and added that if both of them went, they wouldn't be able to stay long since no one was home to look after things. She would just go on home by herself, Elsi said, for then her mistress could stay as long as she wanted and could then find company for the trip home or perhaps even a ride.As they stood there talking, Christen came up and, taking the side of the farmer's wife, told Elsi that she would just have to come along this time. It would be awfully strange, he said, if a girl like her refused to enter an inn; she would be the first to do such a thing. Elsi stood by her decision and refused politely, saying she didn't care for wine and that no one was home to keep an eye on things. She had to come, Christen said; she could drink as little as she wanted and leave whenever she pleased, but he just wanted to see once and for all if she were ashamed to be seen with him or not.That was unreasonable, Elsi said; he knew very well that a poor maid would not be ashamed to be seen with a farmer. He shouldn't be angry, but she had always refused to let herself be swayed by flattery or vanity and was in the habit of thinking before she opened her mouth and then keeping to what she had said. The good farmer's wife, who did not understand any other motives than wanting to go or not wanting to go, helped Christen coax her and said that such behavior was very strange and that when she was young, she would have been ashamed to have refused an offer from a handsome, well-behaved lad and, indeed, would never have inflicted such embarrassment on a lad.There is nothing which kindles a person's anger and strengthens his resolve more than such seconding of his viewpoint. Christen, therefore, pressed Elsi all the more and wanted to drag her bodily into the inn. Elsi, however, stood firm.At that Christen said in anger,"Well, you know best what reasons you have for always refusing. But if you won't go, there are plenty of others who will."With that he let go of Elsi and latched onto another Heimiswyl girl who happened to be walking by and who willingly accompanied Christen into the inn. The farm mistress gave Elsi an angry look, said, "Now see what you've done," and followed after them. Elsi stood there feeling that her heart was about to break. Her anger over what Christen had said and her jealousy towards the other girl almost accomplished what love could not, and she was on the point of following after Christen. She restrained herself, however; she had a great aversion to inns, for it was there that her family's honor and happiness had been ruined. She avoided them, too, because she ran the greatest danger there of being recognized or of having to hear some story about her father. At inns folks flock together and take time to look each other over and place faces, something which is not possible in a brief encounter on the road.As she went home, her heart felt heavier than it had since the days of her family's ruination. At first she could hardly keep from crying but struggled to keep back the tears because of what folks would think. Then a dark, bitter resentment began to fill her breast. So this was how it was to be with her: not only was she never to be happy, but she was to be hounded and suspected on top of it all; and she had to put up with it, since she couldn't explain herself. That was how the people treated her from whom she deserved it least, the very ones who should have known her best. Just as in the olden days the mountains were said to have grown out of the earth in the throes of a mighty revolution, so did the decision grow out of the sorrows of Elsi's heart to withdraw more and more from contact with others, to have nothing more to do with anyone, to speak only when she was spoken to, and to leave the Valley, where everyone was against her, as soon as she could.When the farm mistress arrived, she unwittingly strengthened Elsi's resolve. She had meant to do just the opposite, yet not everyone is accurate in his calculations, not only with numbers, but also with words. She told Elsi how Christen was amusing himself in Burgdorf and would surely accompany the girl home and how no one could tell what would happen then, for the girl was pretty, rich and clever enough to catch a bird in a trap. That would serve Elsi right and she would deserve it, for that was no way for a maid to behave towards a farmer. But she was starting to think that there was something suspicious in her refusal, for she couldn't understand it otherwise. If there weren't, then Elsi should say so. Elsi's only answer to this was sullen silence.Elsi went to bed in stubborn silence and was in the same frame of mind when she awoke upon hearing a knocking at her window and then Christen's voice. Christen hadn't had the heart to see a new day dawn over his quarrel with Elsi. The wine he had drunk had just made him see things clearer, and the more the wine had gained control over him on the way home, the more he had been drawn to Elsi in order to make up with her. He had stopped at the Heimiswyl Inn with the girl, but only in order to free himself from her gracefully. He had ordered half a bottle of wine and something to eat, had left under some pretense, paid his bill and not reappeared. The girl was, as we said, not one of the slow ones; she soon saw what was up. She neither howled nor cursed but rather treated another lad to what Christen had paid for and thus had someone to accompany her home. Christen did not have so easy a time of it. Elsi, her resolve hardened by her mistress's words, kept firmly to her decision and would not answer Christen, no matter how much he begged and pleaded. She had to bury her head in her pillow so he couldn't hear her cry, but she steadfastly maintained her silence. Christen became furious, but still Elsi did not budge. Finally he left, half in anger and half in the belief that Elsi was so fast asleep that she had not heard him.Christen was soon able, however, to see Elsi's new state of mind. The old friendliness was gone. Elsi acted very cool towards him, answering his questions as curtly as possible, greeting him when he greeted her, but in all other ways keeping her distance. Christen turned frantic over this behavior and yet could not stay away from Elsi. He vowed a hundred times not to think of her anymore and to break with her altogether. Yet she was constantly on his mind. He would see her white shirt sleeves shimmering through as many as seven fences and before he realized it there he was standing beneath her window. He vowed a hundred times to woo another girl right away and thus put an end to it. Yet he was not capable of acting friendly with any other girl and if one were friendly to him he became angry with her; it was as if all women carried the blame for Elsi's unfriendliness.As Christen's sorrow grew in his heart like a noxious weed, so too did the rumor concerning the French. Militiamen had long since been called up and numerous battalions were gathered opposite the French forces, which were grouped along the borders and in Vaud. The belief gained ever greater currency among the people that the French were afraid and didn't dare attack. Meanwhile, there were many folk slinking about who tried to spread the rumor that the ruling patricians were about to betray the people. If this were not the case, the French would have left long ago; they said the French were just waiting for the right moment and were trying to work out a deal with the patricians. The real citizenry regarded the French as the embodiment of the Antichrist, as worse than man-eating cannibals. They were therefore very angry over the patricians' long-winded debates in Town Hall; their hesitancy and indecision were not calculated to deflate the calumnious rumors.One dreadful piece of news followed the other. Then the message suddenly arrived that war had broken out and messengers flew through the valleys, calling for all men not already in active service to gather at specific meeting places. It was late in the evening of March the first that Christen received his orders. He made his preparations immediately and arranged matters at home. Neighbor after neighbor came to offer his services and not a one forgot to remind Christen: "Don't spare them, the heathens. Don't let any get away; shoot their heads and legs off and then burn them alive! Then they'll know in the future, the demons, to leave us in peace."Christen could hardly wait till the last well-wisher had gone and he had shaken off those who wanted to accompany him on his way, for he did not want to leave without a parting word with Elsi. When he came underneath her window, he received the same welcome as before.At that he said: "Listen, Elsi. I'm in uniform and on my way to war. Who knows if you'll ever see me alive again; you won't for sure if you don't answer me now. Come out or you might be sorry for the rest of your life."These words touched Elsi's heart; she got up and came to the window.Then Christen said: "So there you are after all. Well, now give me your hand and tell me you aren't mad at me and that if God spares me you'll be my wife. Promise me."Elsi gave him her hand but was silent."Will you promise me?" Christen asked.Elsi felt her heart was about to break, yet for a long time she could say nothing until Christen spoke once more: "Well, say something! Tell me you'll marry me so I know where I stand," whereupon she answered: "I can't.""But Elsi, think about what you're saying," Christen said. "Don't do anything foolish. Don't do something you'll regret later. Say you will.""I can't," Elsi repeated."Elsi, think hard about what you're doing!" Christen pleaded."Don't say it a third time. Who knows if that won't be the very last thing you ever say to me. Say yes, for God's sake, I beg of you."Elsi felt her throat tighten. Finally she whispered: "I can't.""Well, then think about what you've done," Christen answered, "and see how you answer to God for it."With these words he rushed off and Elsi sank to the floor in a faint.It was quiet in the Valley as the sun rose on the second of March. The majority of the inhabitants had been up late the evening before, accompanying the departing militiamen, so that the morning hustle and bustle was later than usual. Elsi was in a dull stupor and walked about like a faint shadow. Her mistress had seen Christen say good-bye at Elsi's window but hadn't been able to hear what they had said. She hoped they had settled everything and she felt sorry for Elsi, whose state of mind she attributed to fear for Christen's life. She consoled her as best as she could and said that it wasn't certain that there'd be war; perhaps it was once again much ado about nothing. Even if it were war this time, she had heard that in a hundred shots only one would find its target; and Christen was old enough to know how to avoid being hit and wouldn't just go rushing in like a fool. Elsi shouldn't worry; everything would turn out all right and they'd be celebrating their marriage in grand style before Whit Sunday.This attempt at comforting, however, once again had the opposite effect and Elsi began to lament out loud, contrary to her usual reserve."He'll never come back, I know it! And I'm to blame!" she cried out in a desperate voice."My God," the woman said, "didn't you settle everything with him and tell him you'd marry him? That must have been why he came and maybe, too, to sign his farm over to you before he marched off from Burgdorf.""I told him no," Elsi replied, "and he said I'd never see him alive again." At that the farmer's wife threw her hands up over her head and said: "My God, this is unbelievable! Are you crazy? Did you have a child and then murder it? Or is your father a murderer? It has to be something like that or you never would have had the heart to refuse such a lad, especially since you like him yourself, as I've seen well enough. Well, are you the murderer or was it your father? Let's hear it! I've got to know this time!""Neither one nor the other," said Elsi, deeply hurt over such an accusation. "I'm from a good family, which doesn't have its equal in this whole district. And it's not my fault what my father did.""So what did he do?" asked the woman."He must have murdered somebody or else have been a counterfeiter and been put in prison or even hanged.""No, mistress," Elsi said, "I don't know why you suspect me of such dreadful things.""But there must be something that keeps you from marrying; a girl doesn't refuse such a man for no good reason. Did your father maybe forge documents or perhaps even commit suicide so that he was refused burial in a Christian cemetery?""No, mistress," Elsi said, "that's not it either. He went bankrupt and has had to go begging from door to door. I'll say it straight out so that people won't tell tales about how bad I am. Anyway it will all be over soon, and I don't want folks to be saying bad things about me when I'm in my grave.""What? He went bankrupt? And that's the reason you won't marry, you ninny? That's what you didn't want to admit? The less you have, the more you need a rich husband. If no member of a bankrupt family could marry, just think how many people looking to get married would have to stay single.""Oh, mistress," Elsi said, "you don't know who we were and what our misfortune meant to me.""Well, well. You aren't at any rate the next of kin to God Himself."Suddenly a child's voice cried out from outside,"Mommy! Mommy! They're coming, they're coming!""Who?" cried the woman."The French; they're already at Loch Creek or at least in Burgdorf. Listen to them shoot!""Oh Christen, Christen!" Elsi cried out. They all ran out of the house. Outside everyone as far as the eye could see was standing in front of their houses. Bang, bang; shot after shot could be heard coming muffled over the mountain. The men listened with serious faces. The women stood trembling and wherever possible stood beside or behind their husbands, touching them or holding hands; many a wife who had done nothing but nag her husband for years turned soft and tender and said, "Don't leave me, for God's sake, don't leave me. I'll never nag you again."Finally an old man leaning on a walking stick said: "That's not dangerous. It's still far off, on the other side of the Aare River, probably in the mountains, When the militiamen train in Grenchen, the shooting sounds just the same. The troops from Bern are in Lengnau and some are said to be up in the mountains, too. The French must be trying to get through there. But just let them; they're in a tight spot and will have a bad enough time of it in Solothurn. They've got good sharpshooters in Solothurn; they're always the wildest at the shooting fests."That encouraged the women, but it was not to the liking of many a young lad who stood with a pitchfork or halberd in his hand eager to join in the fighting."We'll go anyway," said one lad, "even if we have to go all the way to Solothurn. If we start now, maybe we'll get there in time for the fun.""You'll stay here!" the old man ordered."If one fellow runs off here, another there, we won't accomplish anything; you can't drive a millstone with single drops of water. If the French break through Solothurn, then the storm will break loose; the bells will ring, the fires will burn and signal shots will be fired from the mountain. Then let every able-bodied man charge together in God's name, then the war will be on in earnest and the French will learn what it means to enter the Canton of Bern. But till then, just sit tight and wait!"This was not to the taste of many of the hot-blooded young lads; they crept off and disappeared, and more than one was never seen again."So you don't think our people are fighting yet?" Elsi asked, standing next to the old man."Oh no," said the man, "they're probably just leaving Burgdorf now for Fraubrunnen or Bl?tterkinden. I don't know what their orders are. But it wouldn't hurt for someone to go to Burgdorf to find out what's going on."In Burgdorf, however, matters stood about as they did back in the Valley. There was rumor after rumor, each wilder than the first. The French-haters talked about how the enemy had been beaten and how they were all either dead or half-dead. The friends of the French said just the opposite; they claimed the entire Bernese army had either been beaten, taken captive or betrayed, and told people they shouldn't resist since they'd get nothing but a rifle shot or a bayonet jab for their efforts. And so the rumors flew this way and that like clouds chasing each other before a thunderstorm.Towards evening the shooting stopped and the countryside was once again quiet. Everyone hoped the French had been caught in a trap in Solothurn and captured by the soldiers from the mountains and from Buren. Elsi, too, felt more at ease on the strength of this hope. She had been obliged to tell her mistress who she was, whereupon the latter had once again thrown her hands up over her head in amazement. She had heard of the miller, of his behavior and of his riches, and since it was this last fact which most impressed her, she regarded Elsi with an added measure of respect. She would never have believed, she said, that a rich miller's daughter could have hidden so well who she was, although she had been able to tell right from the beginning that Elsi hadn't been a maid all her life."And that, you simpleton, is what you were afraid to tell him? None of that affair is your fault and even if your father is a beggar now, your family was rich and of good, old stock, and nothing was wrong with it otherwise; so one thing balances out the other. Oh, if only I could tell Christen right away. You'd see, not only would it make no difference to him, he would take your father in, too, just so he would be off the public dole.""I wouldn't want that," said Elsi, "I don't want to live with my father and I still can't marry Christen. I don't ever want to marry anyone. I know how menfolk are; I'd have to put up with being reminded of my father and of my being poor and I couldn't stand that. I'd rather do away with myself; I was close to doing it once already. But if only Christen doesn't do something terrible out of anger and try to get shot and killed; I wouldn't be able to live with that.""You're a silly goose," her mistress said, "not to have told him the whole story; it was just pride that stopped you. But you know what, we'll send him a message tomorrow; some old man or other will surely be sending something to his soldier sons, some cheese, ham or brandy. I don't mind sending one of our hams to Christen, and we can let him know at the same time that things have changed back home and that he should be sure and come home all in one piece as soon as possible. He'll understand what that means."For a long time Elsi didn't want to have anything to do with this plan. She bemoaned having told her story, threatened to run away and lamented over not having died long ago. If only Christen were to come home alive, she said, she'd gladly die on the spot, but she wouldn't and couldn't marry him. Her mistress, however, did not heed Elsi's words; she had her heart set on the marriage and once a woman has decided to marry someone off, it's mighty difficult to keep her from doing it. She had a ham taken down from the chimney and didn't rest until she had found a lad who was being sent with provisions to the soldiers by a worried mother. She gave him strict instructions as to who was to receive the ham and what message was to be delivered.This deed of the farmer's wife poured balsam onto Elsi's bleeding heart, although she wouldn't admit it. She quarreled with her mistress, saying she had been betrayed; she was mad at herself, too, for having let her story slip out. She didn't know whether she should stay or leave: she was like the fort commander who, having just spoken of defending the fort to the last man and then blowing it sky high, gradually comes to see that there is no sense in that and that staying alive would be better after all.The third of March went by without the sound of cannon fire. But rumors came that the cities of Freiburg and Solothurn had been taken, that Buren had been burned to the ground and that the patricians wanted to surrender without a fight. This last rumor kindled a tremendous anger in whomever it reached. They would like to have a say about that too, the farmers said, but first of all those scoundrels who sold what didn't belong to them would have to answer for what they'd done. Towards evening folks reported having seen soldiers passing through the Valley who were coming from the direction of Wynigen. The soldiers reportedly said they had just come from Weissenstein and that it was all over; some of the Swiss soldiers had surrendered, the others had been scattered, and the French would be there before anyone could tell.This report traveled with lightning speed through the entire Valley and roused everyone. But like a flash of lightning, it disappeared again, and in the end no one could say who had seen the soldiers or if they were even soldiers at all and not spies busy reconnoitering the country, for there were Germans with the French, folks said, who talked just as they did themselves and who, in fact, looked and acted just like normal folk. This news left behind nothing but more uncertainty. No one knew whether to expect the men back who had already set off or whether to send reinforcements. Folks stood around, packing and unpacking. It seemed as if it were all calculated to let the people's fiery spirit go up in smoke without getting any benefit out of it.The lad who had been sent out did not return until the next day, the fourth of March. He came back without the ham but with bad news. He hadn't been able to find Christen, he said. He had heard that Christen had set off for Bltterkinden with his unit and he hadn't wanted to follow him there. They had told him that a fellow could stumble right into the French camp like you'd bump against a hornet's nest. Their dragoons, too, seemed to be able to fly through the air, for when you thought they were still an hour away, they would suddenly be on top of you. He had therefore left the ham in Fraubrunnen and had told the people there to give it to Christen when they saw him. The militiamen were not being sent back home. Some said they were going to wait for the French there, others said they were waiting for reinforcements before attacking the French, who didn't dare leave Solothurn. One thing was certain, they said, the fighting would soon begin.This news upset Elsi terribly. So there was to be war and Christen was in the forefront of the fighting and purposely there, too, and all because of Elsi's refusal. There was no one there to reassure him and he had not even received the news of her change of heart. She would never see him alive again! She felt compelled to take the message herself, but she didn't know how and was afraid to run into the French all alone. Her mistress consoled her by saying the citizens' army would soon join the regular army and that then she could go along with everybody else. The farmer's wife herself would stay home in her place, for someone had to take care of the stock. So Elsi would be able to go soon enough, her mistress told her. And besides they surely wouldn't start the fighting till everyone had gotten there.All the villagers readied themselves and chose their weapons. Elsi decided on a solid, two-pronged pitchfork with a long handle, such as is used to lift the sheaves at harvest time, and waited for the attack with great impatience.It was on the fifth of March that the French came and the storm burst loose over Bern: bells rang out, signal fires burned on the mountain tops, cannon shots were fired and the ragamuffin citizens' army came swarming out of the valleys. They were a motley crew who didn't know what to do and whom no one tried to lead. A mass of people streamed out of the nearby villages into Burgdorf. There they were told to go to Fraubrunnen, for news had come that the French had left Solothurn. There on the fields of Fraubrunnen the battle was to take place and there the Bernese troops were waiting, including riflemen and gunners from the Heimiswyl Valley. The flood of people moved through the land, children, old men, women all jumbled together. No one thought in the least of trying to bring some order into the chaos, just as no one thought about what they would do once they were actually facing the enemy. Driven by a marvelously strong, almost inexplicable force, each person simply headed in the direction of the enemy as fast as he could, just as if it were a question of driving a herd of sheep from a plowed field. The sound of shooting, which had just commenced, did not slow them down at all; each seemed to fear that he would arrive too late.Elsi was up among the very first and at each shot her heart stopped and she could not help thinking: was Christen hit? As they came out of the forest at Kernenried, they could see the battle beginning at the furthest end of the Fraubrunnen plain, towards Solothurn. Cannons thundered, gunshots rang out, thundering cavalry could be seen and clouds of smoke drifted out over the marshy field. The people from the valleys stood there amazed. They had never seen a battle before, or at least not more than one in a hundred had. How dreadfully the gunfire was sent back and forth! And from a distance foe could not be distinguished from friend! The longer they watched, the more amazed they became. The wild rifle and cannon fire, all with real ammunition, began to make them shudder. They decided it was best just to wait and see which way the battle went; if they just marched right into the fighting, they might join the wrong side by mistake. No one was there to organize them, to fire them up and to lead them quickly into battle. The Bernese were afflicted in those days with an incurable blindness. The soldiers, often left without officers for great lengths of time, simply stood around after they had fired and when their ardor and their rifles had been cooled by this useless waiting, they would simply disperse. The one time the soldiers were led forward rather than backward, in the battle at Neuenegg, the French learned what Swiss strength and courage are still capable of.Elsi's heart was in her mouth as she watched everyone standing around idly, debating what to do next, and especially when she heard voices say here and there: "Listen, people, the best thing for us to do is to go home; we won't accomplish anything here."Even if no one else went, Elsi said, she was going; why else had they come? If only she knew the shortest way across the bog. Several lads cried out that they would come along and, leaving the rest of the people, they hurried off towards Fraubrunnen. As they came onto the highway, they had a hard time squeezing their way through the incredible chaos and congestion. Elsi was almost forced to push Bernese soldiers out of the way to get past; they were standing around on the road, idly watching another battalion charge into battle. It was almost beyond belief how the soldiers stood there and engaged in battle with the enemy singly one after another, or else patiently waited till it pleased the French to attack. They did not help or support each other. At most, when one battalion had been annihilated, another would let the enemy know it was there, too, waiting for its turn to share the same fate.Elsi was able to see all this in a flash and when the soldiers through whom she elbowed her way grumbled and told her to go home and spin flax she would say that since they were standing around like idiots, the womenfolk had to lead the way in order to save the country. If they were worth anything, she went on, they would go help their comrades. From the bog Elsi had seen a large linden tree on the field and from that direction came the smoke of cannon fire. She felt her Christen must be there, and so she hurried off as fast as her feet would carry her. When she had reached the top of a hill from which the famous linden could be seen, the cannons were still thundering. But Elsi saw that to the right, between the highway and the bog and concealed by the side of the hill, riders came flying like the wind, all dressed in foreign uniforms."The French! The French are coming!" she cried as loud as she could, but her voice was lost in the roar of the cannons.The riders knew exactly what they wanted to do: knock out the artillery which had begun to be troublesome to them. They too made for the linden tree and once they reached it, charged onto the road and into the midst of the gunners. The artillerymen were unprotected and tried to hide among their cannons, but one after another was cut down. Soon there was only one last gunner left standing, courageously defending himself with a short-bladed sabre: it was Christen."Christen, Christen! Fight them off; I'm coming!" cried Elsi in a loud voice.Christen heard the call, saw Elsi, but in the same instant sank down between the cannons, mortally wounded. With the fierceness of an angry lioness, Elsi rushed against the French. They called out to her, granting her free passage, but she heard nothing. With her pitchfork she threw the first rider from his horse and struck at anything which lay between Christen and her, wounding both men and horses. Blades whizzed all around her, yet she managed to struggle through till she collapsed by the cannons. In front of her lay Christen."Oh Christen! Are you still alive?" she called, herself fast approaching death.Christen tried to raise himself up but couldn't; he gave her his bloody hand, and hand in hand they passed on into that land where nothing more divides those souls who have found each other on earth.The French were touched by their death, for even the wild hussars were not unreceptive to true love. They told others the story of the two lovers and each time they told it they would grow sad and say that if they had known what each had meant to the other, both would still be alive; but in the fury of battle there was no time for lengthy questions.NovellaJohann Wolfgang von GoetheThe thick fog of an early autumnal morning obscured the extensive courts which surrounded the prince's castle; but through the mists, which gradually dispersed, a stranger might observe a cavalcade of horse and foot, already engaged in their early preparations for the field. The active employments of the domestics were already discernible. These latter were engaged in lengthening and shortening stirrup-leathers, preparing the rifles and ammunition, and arranging the game-bags whilst the dogs, impatient of restraint, threatened to break away from the slips by which they were held. Then the horses became restive, from their own high mettle, or excited by the spur of the rider, who could not resist the temptation to make a vain display of his prowess, even in the obscurity by which he was surrounded. The cavalcade awaited the arrival of the prince, who was delayed too long while taking leave of his young wife.Lately married, they thoroughly appreciated the happiness of their own congenial dispositions: both were lively and animated, and each shared with delight the pleasures and pursuits of the other. The prince's father had lived long enough to enjoy that period of life when one learns that all the members of a state should spend their time in diligent employments, and that every one should engage in some energetic occupation corresponding with his taste, and should by this means first acquire, and then enjoy, the fruits of his labour.How far these maxims had proved successful might have been observed on this very day; for it was the anniversary of the great market in the town, a festival which might indeed be considered a species of fair. The prince had, on the previous day, conducted his wife on horseback through the busy scene, and had caused her to observe what a convenient exchange was carried on between the productions of the mountainous districts and those of the plain; and he took occasion then and there to direct her attention to the industrious character of his subjects.But whilst the prince was entertaining himself and his courtiers almost exclusively with subjects of this nature, and was perpetually employed with his finance minister, his chief huntsman did not lose sight of his duty: and, upon his representation, it was impossible, during these favourable autumnal days, any longer to postpone the amusement of the chase; as the promised meeting had already been several times deferred, not only to his own mortification, but to that of many strangers who had arrived to take part in the sport.The princess remained, reluctantly, at home. It had been determined to hunt over the distant mountains, and to disturb the peaceful inhabitants of the forests in those districts by an unexpected declaration of hostilities. Upon taking his departure, the prince recommended his wife to seek amusement in equestrian exercise, under the conduct of her uncle Frederick."And I commend you, moreover," he said, "to the care of our trusty Honorio, who will act as your esquire, and pay you every attention."Saying this as he descended the stairs, and gave the needful instructions to a comely youth, the prince quickly disappeared amid the crowd of assembled guests and followers. The princess, who had continued waving her handkerchief to her husband as long as he remained in the courtyard, now retired to an apartment at the back of the castle, which showed an extensive prospect over the mountain; as the castle itself was situated on the brow of the hill, from which a view at once distant and varied opened in all directions.She found the telescope in the spot where it had been left on the previous evening, when they had amused themselves in surveying the landscape, and the extent of mountain and forest amid which the lofty ruins of their ancestral castle were situated. It was a noble relic of ancient times, and shone out gloriously in the evening illumination. A grand but somewhat inadequate idea of its importance was conveyed by the large masses of light and shadow which now fell on it. Moreover, by the aid of the telescope, the autumnal foliage was seen to lend an indescribable charm - to the prospect, as it waved upon trees which had grown up amid the ruins, undisturbed, for a great many years.But the princess soon turned the telescope in the direction of a dry and sandy plain beneath her, across which the hunting cavalcade was expected to bend its course. She patiently surveyed the spot, and was at length rewarded, as the clear magnifying power of the instrument enabled her delighted eyes to recognise the prince and his chief equerry. Upon this she once more waved her handkerchief as she observed or, rather, fancied she observed, a momentary pause in the advance of the procession.Her uncle Frederick was now announced; and he entered the apartment, accompanied by an artist, bearing a large portfolio under his arm."Dear cousin," observed the vigorous old man, addressing her, "we have brought some sketches of the ancestral castle for your inspection, to show how the old walls and battlements were calculated to afford defence and protection during stormy seasons in years long passed; though they have tottered in some places, and in others have covered the plain with their ruins. Our efforts have been unceasing to render the place accessible, since few spots offer more beauty or sublimity to the eye of the astonished traveller."The prince continued, as he opened the portfolio containing the different news, "Here, as you ascend the hollow way, through the outer fortifications, you meet the principal tower; and a rock forbids all farther progress. It is the firmest of the mountain range. A castle has been erected upon it, so constructed that it is difficult to say where the work of nature ceases and that of art begins. At a little distance side walls and buttresses have been raised, the whole forming a sort of terrace. The height is surrounded by a wood. For upwards of a century and a half no sound of an axe has been heard within these precincts, and giant trunks of trees appear on all sides. Close to the very walls spring the glossy maple, the rough oak, and the tall pine. They oppose our progress with their boughs and roots, and compel us to make a circuit to secure our advance. See how admirably our artist has sketched all this upon paper; how accurately he has represented the trees as they become entwined amid the masonry of the castle, and thrust their boughs through the opening in the walls. It is a solitude which possesses the indescribable charm of displaying the traces of human power, long since passed away, contending with perpetual and still reviving nature."Opening a second picture, he continued his discourse, "What say you to this representation of the castle court, which has been rendered impassable for countless years by the falling of the principal tower? We endeavoured to approach it from the side, and, in order to form a convenient private road, were compelled to blow up the old walls and vaults with gunpowder. But there was no necessity for similar operations within the castle walls. Here is a flat, rocky surface which has been levelled by the hand of nature, through which, however, mighty trees have here and there been able to strike their roots. They have thriven well, and thrust their branches into the very galleries where the knights of old were wont to exercise, and have forced their way through doors and windows into vaulted halls, from which they are not likely now to be expelled, and whence we, at least, shall not remove them. They have become lords of the territory, and may remain so. Concealed beneath heaps of dried leaves, we found a perfectly level floor, which probably cannot be equalled in the world."In ascending the steps which lead to the chief tower, it is remarkable to observe, in addition to all we have mentioned above, how a maple-tree has taken root on high, and grown to a great size; so that, in ascending to the highest turret to enjoy the prospect, it is difficult to pass. And here you may refresh yourself beneath the shade; for, even at this elevation, the tree of which we speak throws its shadows over all around."We feel much indebted to the talented artist, who, in the course of several views, has brought thus the whole scenery as completely before us as if we had actually witnessed the original scene. He selected the most beautiful hours of the day, and the most favourable season of the year, for his task, to which he devoted many weeks. A small dwelling was erected for him and his assistant in the corner of the castle: you can scarcely imagine what a splendid view of the country, court, and ruins he there enjoyed. We intend these pictures to adorn our country-house; and every one who enjoys a view of our regular parterres, of our bowers and shady walks, will doubtless feel anxious to feed his imagination and his eyes with an actual inspection of these scenes, and so enjoy at once the old and new, the rigid and the unyielding, the indestructible and the young, the pliant and the irresistible."Honorio now entered, and announced the arrival of the horses. The princess, thereupon, addressing her uncle, expressed a wish to ride up to the ruins, and examine personally the subjects he had so graphically described. "Ever since my arrival here," she said, "this excursion has been intended; and I shall be delighted to accomplish what has been declared almost impracticable, and what the pictures show to be so difficult.""Not yet, my dear," replied the prince; "these pictures only portray what the place will become, but many difficulties impede a commencement of the work.""But let us ride a little toward the mountain," she rejoined, "if only to the beginning of the ascent: I have a great desire to-day to enjoy an extensive prospect.""Your desire shall be gratified," answered the prince."But we will first direct our course through the town," continued the lady, " and across the marketplace, where a countless number of booths wear the appearance of a small town or of an encampment. It seems as if all the wants and occupations of every family in the country were brought together and supplied in this one spot; for the attentive observer may here behold whatever man can produce or require. You would suppose that money was wholly unnecessary, and that business of every kind could be carried on by means of barter; and such, in fact, is the case. Since the prince directed my attention to this view yesterday, I have felt pleasure in observing the manner in which the inhabitants of the mountain and of the valley mutually comprehend each other, and how both so plainly speak their wants and their wishes in this place. The mountaineer, for example, has cut the timber of his forests into a thousand forms, and applied his iron to multifarious uses; while the inhabitant of the valley meets him with his various wares and merchandise, the very materials and object of which it is difficult to know or conjecture.""I am aware," observed the prince, "that my nephew devotes his attention wholly to these subjects, for at this particular season of the year he receives more than he expends; and this, after all, is the object and end of every national financier, and, indeed, of the pettiest household economist. But excuse me, my dear, I never ride with any pleasure through the market or the fair; obstacles impede one at every step: and my imagination continually recurs to that dreadful calamity which happened before my own eyes, when I witnessed the conflagration of as large a collection of merchandise as is accumulated here. I had scarcely -""Let us not lose our time," said the princess, interrupting him, as her worthy uncle had more than once tortured her with a literal account of the very same misfortune. It had happened when he was upon a journey, and had retired, fatigued, to bed, in the best hotel of the town, which was situated in the marketplace. It was the season of the fair, and in the dead of the night he was awoke by screams and by the columns of fire which approached the hotel.The princess hastened to mount her favourite palfrey, and led the way for her unwilling companion, when she rode through the front gate down the hill, in place of passing through the back gate up the mountain. But who could have felt unwilling to ride at her side, or to follow wherever she led? And even Honorio had gladly abandoned the pleasure of his favourite amusement, the chase, in order to officiate as her devoted attendant.As we have before observed, they could only ride through the market step by step; but the amusing observations of the princess rendered every pause delightful."I must repeat my lesson of yesterday," she remarked, "for necessity will try our patience."And, in truth, the crowd pressed upon them in such a manner that they could only continue their progress at a very slow pace. The people testified great joy at beholding the young princess, and the complete satisfaction of many a smiling face evinced the pleasure of the people at finding that the first lady in the land was at once the most lovely and the most gracious.Promiscuously mingled together were rude mountaineers who inhabited quiet cottages amongst bleak rocks and towering pine-trees, lowlanders from the plains and meadows, and manufacturers from the neighbouring small towns. After quietly surveying the motley crowd, the princess remarked to her companion, that all the people she saw seemed to take delight in using more stuff for their garments than was necessary, whether it consisted of cloth, linen, ribbon, or trimming.It seemed as if the wearers, both men and women, thought they would be better if they looked puffed out as much as possible."We must leave that matter to themselves," answered the uncle. "Every man must dispose of his superfluity as he pleases: well for those who spend it in mere ornament."The princess nodded her assent.They had now arrived at a wide, open square which led to one of the suburbs: they there perceived a number of small booths and stalls, and also a large wooden building whence a most discordant howling issued. It was the feeding-hour of the wild animals which were there enclosed for exhibition. The lion roared with that fearful voice with which he was accustomed to terrify both woods and wastes. The horses trembled, and no one could avoid observing how the monarch of the desert made himself terrible in the tranquil circles of civilised life. Approaching nearer, they remarked the tawdry, colossal pictures on which the beasts were painted in the brightest colours, intended to afford irresistible temptation to the busy citizen. The grim and fearful tiger was in the act of springing upon a negro to tear him to pieces. The lion stood in solemn majesty, as if he saw no worthy prey before him. Other wonderful creatures in the same group presented inferior attractions."Upon our return," said the princess, "we will alight, and take a nearer inspection of these rare creatures.""Is it not extraordinary," replied the prince, "that man takes pleasure in fearful excitements? The tiger, for instance, is lying quietly enough within his cage; and yet here the brute must be painted in the act of springing fiercely on a negro, in order that the public may believe that the same scene is to be witnessed within. Do not murder and death, fire and desolation, sufficiently abound, but that every mountebank must repeat such horrors? The worthy people like to be alarmed, that they may afterward enjoy the delightful sensation of freedom and security."But whatever feelings of terror such frightful representations might have inspired, they disappeared when they reached the gate and surveyed the cheerful prospects around. The road led down to a river, a narrow brook in truth, and only calculated to bear light skiffs, but destined afterward, when swelled into a wider stream, to take another name, and to water distant lands. They then bent their course farther through carefully cultivated fruit and pleasure gardens, in an orderly and populous neighbourhood, until first a copse and then a wood received them as guests, and delighted their eyes with a limited but charming landscape.A green valley leading to the heights above, which had been lately mowed for the second time, and wore the appearance of velvet, having been copiously watered by a rich stream, now received them with a friendly welcome. They then bent their course to a higher and more open spot, which, upon issuing from the wood, they reached after a short ascent, and whence they obtained a distant view of the old castle, the object of their pilgrimage, which shone above the groups of trees, and assumed the appearance of a well-wooded rock. Behind them (for no one ever attained this height without turning to look round) they saw, through occasional openings in the lofty trees, the prince's castle on the left, illuminated by the morning sun; the higher portion of the town, obscured by a light, cloudy mist; and, on the right hand, the lower part, through which the river flowed in many windings, with its meadows and its mills; whilst straight before them the country extended in a wide, productive plain.After they had satisfied their eyes with the landscape, or rather, as is often the case in surveying an extensive view from an eminence, when they had become desirous of a wider and less circumscribed prospect, they rode slowly along a broad and stony plain, where they saw the mighty ruin standing with its coronet of green, whilst its base was clad with trees of lesser height; and proceeding onward they encountered the steepest and most impassable side of the ascent. It was defended by enormous rocks, which had endured for ages: proof against the ravages of time, they were fast rooted in the earth, and towered aloft. One part of the castle had fallen, and lay in huge fragments irregularly massed, and seemed to act as an insurmountable barrier, the mere attempt to overcome which is a delight to youth: as supple limbs ever find it a pleasure to undertake, to combat, and to conquer. The princess seemed disposed to make the attempt; Honorio was at hand; her princely uncle assented, unwilling to acknowledge his want of agility. The horses were directed to wait for them under the trees; and it was intended they should make for a certain point where a large rock had been rendered smooth, and from which a prospect was beheld, which, though of the nature of a bird's-eye view, was sufficiently picturesque.It was mid-day: the sun had attained its highest altitude, and shed its clearest rays around; the princely castle, in all its parts, battlements, wings, cupolas, and towers, presented a glorious appearance. The upper part of the town was seen in its full extent: the eye could even penetrate into parts of the lower town, and, with the assistance of the telescope, distinguish the market-place, and even the very booths. It was Honorio's invariable custom to sling this indispensable instrument to his side. They took a view of the river in its course and its descent, and of the sloping plain, and of the luxuriant country with its gentle undulations and then of the numerous villages, for it had been from time immemorial a subject of contention, how many could be counted from this spot.Over the wide plain there reigned a calm stillness such as is accustomed to rule at mid-day, - an hour when, according to classical phraseology, the god Pan sleeps, and all nature is breathless, that his repose may be undisturbed."It is not the first time," observed the princess, "that standing upon an eminence which presents a wide extended view, I have thought how pure and peaceful is the look of holy Nature; and the impression comes upon me, that the world beneath must be free from strife and care: but returning to the dwellings of man, be they the cottage or the palace, be they roomy or circumscribed, we find that there is, in truth, ever something to subdue, to struggle with, to quiet and allay."Honorio, in the meantime, had directed the telescope toward the town, and now exclaimed, "Look, look! the town is on fire in the market-place."They looked, and saw some smoke; but the glare of daylight eclipsed the flames."The fire increases!" they exclaimed, still looking through the instrument. The princess saw the calamity with the naked eye: from time to time they perceived a red flame ascending amid the smoke.Her uncle at length exclaimed, "Let us return: it is calamitous! I have always feared the recurrence of such a misfortune."They descended; and, having reached the horses, the princess thus addressed her old relative: "Ride forward, sir, hastily, with your attendant, but leave Honorio with me, and we will follow."Her uncle perceived the prudence and utility of this advice, and, riding on as quickly as the nature of the ground would allow, descended to the open plain.The princess mounted her steed, upon which Honorio addressed her thus: "I pray your Highness to ride slowly; the fire-engines are in the best order, both in the town and in the castle; there can surely be no mistake or error, even in so unexpected an emergency. Here, however, the way is dangerous, and riding is insecure, from the small stones and the smooth grass; and, in addition, the fire will no doubt be extinguished before we reach the town."But the princess indulged in no such hope: she saw the smoke ascend, and thought she perceived a flash of lightning and heard a thunder-clap; and her mind was filled with the frightful pictures of the conflagration her uncle's oft-repeated narrative had impressed on her.That calamity had indeed been dreadful, sudden, and impressive enough to make one apprehensive for the repetition of a like misfortune. At midnight a fearful fire had broken out in the market-place, which was filled with booths and stalls, before the occupants of those temporary habitations had been roused from their profound dreams. The prince himself, after a weary day's journey, had retired to rest, but, rushing to the window, perceived with dismay the flames which raged around on every side, and approached the spot where he stood. The houses of the market-place, crimsoned with the reflection, appeared already to burn, and threatened every instant to burst out into a general conflagration. The fierce element raged irresistibly; the beams and rafters crackled; whilst countless pieces of consumed linen flew aloft, and the burnt and shapeless rags sported in the air and looked like foul demons revelling in their congenial element.With loud cries of distress, each individual endeavoured to rescue what he could from the flames. Servants and assistants vied with their masters in their efforts to save the huge bales of goods already half consumed, to tear what still remained uninjured from the burning stalls, and to pack it away in chests; although they were even then compelled to abandon their labours, and leave the whole to fall a prey to the conflagration. How many wished that the raging blaze would allow but a single moment's respite, and, pausing to consider the possibility of such a mercy, fell victims to their brief hesitation. Many buildings burned on one side, while the other side lay in obscure darkness. A few determined, self-willed characters bent themselves obstinately to the task of saving something from the flames, and suffered for their heroism. The whole scene of misery and devastation was renewed in the mind of the beautiful princess: her countenance was clouded, which had beamed so radiantly in the early morning; her eyes had lost their lustre; and even the beautiful woods and meadows around now looked sad and mournful.Riding onward, she entered the sweet valley, but felt uncheered by the refreshing coolness of the place. She had, however, not advanced far, before she observed an unusual appearance in the copse near the meadow where the sparkling brook which flowed through the adjacent country took its rise. She at once recognised a tiger crouched in the attitude to spring, as she had seen him represented in the painting. The impression was fearful."Flee! gracious lady," cried Honorio, "flee at once!"She turned her horse to mount the steep hill she had just descended: but her young attendant drew his pistol, and, approaching the monster, fired; unfortunately he missed his mark, the tiger leaped aside, the horse started, and the terrified beast pursued his course and followed the princess. The latter urged her horse up the steep, stony acclivity, forgetting for a moment that the pampered animal she rode was unused to such exertions; but, urged by his impetuous rider, the spirited steed made a new effort, till at length, stumbling at an inequality of the ground, after many attempts to recover his footing, he fell exhausted to the ground. The princess released herself from the saddle with great expertness and presence of mind, and brought her horse again to its feet. The tiger was in pursuit at a slow pace. The uneven ground and sharp stones appeared to retard his progress; though, as Honorio approached, his speed and strength seemed to be renewed.They now came nearer to the spot where the princess stood by her horse; and Honorio, bending down, discharged a second pistol. This time he was successful, and shot the monster through the head. The animal fell, and, as he lay stretched upon the ground at full length, gave evidence of that might and terror which was now reduced to a lifeless form.Honorio had leaped from his horse, and was now kneeling on the body of the huge brute. He had already put an end to his struggles with the hunting-knife which gleamed within his grasp. He looked even more handsome and active than the princess had ever seen him in list or tournament. Thus had he oftentimes driven his bullet through the head of the Turk in the riding-school, piercing his forehead under the turban, and, carried onward by his rapid courser, had oftentimes struck the Moor's head to the ground with his shining sabre. In all such knightly feats he was dexterous and successful, and here he had found an opportunity for putting his skill to the test."Dispatch him quickly," said the princess, faintly: "I fear he may injure you with his claws.""There is no danger," answered the youth; "he is dead enough: and I do not wish to spoil his skin, - it shall ornament your sledge next winter.""Do not jest at such a time," continued the princess: "such a moment calls forth every feeling of devotion that can fill the heart.""And I never felt more devout than now," added Honorio, "and therefore are my thoughts cheerful: I only consider how this creature's skin may serve your pleasure.""It would too often remind me of this dreadful moment," she replied."And yet," answered the youth, with burning cheek, "this triumph is more innocent than that in which the arms of the defeated are borne in proud procession before the conqueror.""I shall never forget your courage and skill," rejoined the princess; "and let me add that you may, during your whole life, command the gratitude and favour of the prince. But rise, - the monster is dead: rise, I say; and let us think what next is to be done.""Since I find myself now kneeling before you," replied Honorio, "let me be assured of a grace, of a favour, which you can bestow upon me. I have oftentimes implored your princely husband for permission to set out upon my travels. He who dares aspire to the good fortune of becoming your guest should have seen the world. Travellers flock hither from all quarters, and when the conversation turns on some town, or on some peculiar part of the globe, your guests are asked if they have never seen the same. No one can expect confidence who has not seen everything. We must instruct ourselves for the benefit of others.""Rise! " repeated the princess: "I can never consent to desire or request anything contrary to the wish of my husband; but, if I mistake not, the cause of your detention here has already been removed. It was the wish of your prince to mark how your character would ripen, and prove worthy of an independent nobleman, who might one day be to both himself and his sovereign as great an honour abroad as had hitherto been the case here at court; and I doubt not that your present deed of bravery will prove as good a passport as any youth can carry with him through the world."The princess had scarcely time to mark, that, instead of an expression of youthful delight, a shade of grief now darkened his countenance; and he could scarcely display his emotion, before a woman approached, climbing the mountain hastily, and leading a boy by the hand. Honorio had just risen from his kneeling posture, and seemed lost in thought, when the woman advanced with piercing cries, and immediately flung herself upon the lifeless body of the tiger. Her conduct, no less than her gaudy and peculiar attire, bore evidence that she was the owner and attendant of the animal. The boy, by whom she was accompanied, was remarkable for his sparkling eyes and jet-black hair. He carried a flute in his hand, and joined his tears to those of his mother; whilst, with a more calm but deep-felt sorrow than she displayed, he knelt quietly at her side.The violent expression of this wretched woman's grief was succeeded by a torrent of expostulations, which rushed from her in broken sentences, reminding one of a mountain stream whose course is interrupted by impeding rocks. Her natural expressions, short and abrupt, were forcible and pathetic: vain would be the endeavor to translate them into our idiom; we must be satisfied with their general meaning:"They have murdered thee, poor animal, murdered thee without cause! Tamely thou wouldst have lain down to await our arrival; for thy feet pained thee, and thy claws were powerless. Thou didst lack thy burning native sun to bring thee to maturity. Thou wert the most beautiful animal of thy kind! Whoever beheld a more noble royal tiger stretched out to sleep, than thou art as thou liest here, never to rise again? When in the morning thou awokest at the earliest dawn of day opening thy wide jaws, and stretching out thy ruddy tongue, thou seemedst to us to smile, and even when a growl burst from thee, still didst thou ever playfully take thy food from the hand of a woman, or from the fingers of a child. Long did we accompany thee in thy travels, and long was thy society to us as indispensable as profitable. To us, in very truth, did food come from the ravenous, and sweet refreshment from the strong. But alas, alas! this can never be again!"She had not quite ended her lamentations, when a troop of horsemen was observed riding in a body over the heights which led from the castle. They were soon recognised as the hunting cavalcade of the prince, and he himself was at their head. Riding amongst the distant hills, they had observed the dark columns of smoke which obscured the atmosphere; and pushing on over hill and dale, as if in the heat of the chase, they had followed the course indicated by the smoke, which served them as a guide. Rushing forward, regardless of every obstacle, they had come by surprise upon the astonished group, who presented a remarkable appearance in the opening of the hills.Their mutual recognition produced a general surprise; and, after a short pause, a few words of explanation cleared up the apparent mystery. The prince heard with astonishment the extraordinary occurrence as he stood surrounded by the crowd of attendants on foot and on horseback. There seemed no doubt about the necessary course. Orders and commands were at once issued by the prince. A stranger now forced his way forward, and appeared within the circle. He was tall in figure, and attired as gaudily as the woman and her child. The members of the family recognised each other with mutual surprise and pain.But the man, collecting himself, stood at a respectful distance from the prince, and addressed him thus: "This is not a moment for complaining. My lord and mighty master, the lion has also escaped, and is concealed somewhere here in the mountain; but spare him, I implore you! Have mercy upon him, that he may not perish like this poor animal!""The lion escaped!" exclaimed the prince. "Have you found his track? ""Yes, sir. A peasant in the valley, who needlessly took refuge in a tree, pointed to the direction he had taken, - this is the way, to the left; but, perceiving a crowd of men and horses before me, I became curious to know the occasion of their assembling, and hastened forward to obtain help.""Well," said the prince, "the chase must begin in this direction. Load your rifles, go deliberately to work: no misfortune can happen, if you but drive him into the thick woods below us. But in truth, worthy man, we can scarcely spare your favourite: why were you negligent enough to let him escape? ""The fire broke out," replied the other, "and we remained quiet and prepared: it quickly spread round, but raged at a distance from us. We were provided with water in abundance; but suddenly an explosion of gunpowder took place, and the conflagration immediately extended to us and beyond us. We were too precipitate and are now reduced to ruin."The prince was still engaged in issuing his orders, and there was general silence for a moment, when a man was observed flying, rather than running, down from the castle. He was quickly recognised as the watchman of the artist's studio, whose business it was to occupy the dwelling and look after the workmen.Breathless he advanced, and a few words served to announce the nature of his business: "The lion had taken refuge on the heights, and had lain down in the sunshine behind the lofty walls of the castle. He was reposing at the foot of an old tree in perfect tranquillity. But," continued the man in a tone of bitter complaint, "unfortunately, I took my ride to the town yesterday, to have it repaired, or the animal had never risen again: his skin, at least, would have been mine; and I had worn it in triumph all my life."The prince, whose military experience had often served him in time of need, - for he had frequently been in situations where unavoidable danger pressed on every side, - observed, in reply to the man, "What pledge can you give, that, if we spare your lion, he will do no mischief in the country? ""My wife and child," answered the father hastily, "will quiet him and lead him peacefully along, until I repair his shattered cage; and then we shall keep him harmless and uninjured."The child seemed to be looking for his flute. It was that species of instrument which is sometimes called the soft, sweet flute, short in the mouthpiece, like a pipe. Those who understood the art of using it could draw from it the most delicious tones. In the meantime, the prince inquired of the keeper by which path the lion had ascended the mountain."Through the low road," replied the latter: "it is walled in on both sides, has long been the only passage, and shall continue so. Two foot-paths originally led to the same point; but we destroyed them, that there might remain but one way to that castle of enchantment and beauty which is to be formed by the taste and talent of Prince Frederick."After a thoughtful pause, during which the prince stood contemplating the child, who continued playing softly on his flute, the former turned toward Honorio, and said: "Thou hast this day performed a great deal: finish the task you have begun. Occupy the narrow road of which we have heard; hold your rifle ready, but do not shoot if you think it likely that the lion may be driven back; but, under any circumstances, kindle a fire, that he may be afraid to descend in this direction. The man and his wife must answer for the consequences."Honorio proceeded without delay to execute the orders he had received.The child went on with his tune, which was not exactly a melody: but a mere succession of notes followed, without any precise order or artistic arrangement; yet, perhaps for this very reason, the effect seemed replete with enchantment. Every one was delighted with the simple music; when the father, full of a noble enthusiasm, addressed the assembled spectators thus: "God has bestowed the gift of wisdom upon the prince, and the power of seeing that all divine works are good, each after its kind. Behold how the rocks stand firm and motionless, proof against the effects of sun and storm. Their summits are crowned with ancient trees; and, elated with the pride of their ornaments, they look round boldly far and wide. But, should a part become detached, it no longer appears as before: it breaks into a thousand pieces, and covers the side of the declivity. But even there the pieces find no resting-place: they pursue their course downward, till the brook receives them, and carries them onward to the river. Thence, unresisting and submissive, their sharp angles having become rounded and smooth, they are borne along with greater velocity from stream to stream, till they finally attain the ocean, in whose mighty depths giants abide and dwarfs abound."But who celebrates the praise of the Lord, whom the stars praise from all eternity? Why, however, should we direct our vision so far? Behold the bee, how he makes his provision in harvest-time, and constructs a dwelling, correct in angle and level, at once the architect and workman. Behold the ant: she knows her way, and loses it not; she builds her habitation of grass and earth and tiny twigs, builds it high, and strengthens it with arches, but in vain, - the prancing steed approaches, and treads it into nothing, destroying the little rafters and supports of the edifice."He snorts with impatience and with restlessness; for the Lord has formed the horse as companion to the wind, and brother to the storm, that he may carry mankind whither he will. But in the palm forest even he takes to flight. There, in the wilderness, the lion roams in proud majesty: he is monarch of the beasts, and nothing can resist his strength. But man has subdued his valour: the mightiest of animals has respect for the image of God, in which the very angels are formed; and they minister to the Lord and his servants. Daniel trembled not in the lions' den: he stood full of faith and holy confidence, and the wild roaring of the monsters did not interrupt his pious song."This address, which was delivered with an expression of natural enthusiasm, was accompanied by the child's sweet music. But, when his father had concluded, the boy commenced to sing with clear and sonorous voice, and some degree of skill. His parent in the meantime seized his flute, and in soft notes accompanied the child as he sung:Hear the prophet's song ascendingFrom the cavern's dark retreat,Whilst an angel, earthward bending,Cheers his soul with accents sweet.Fear and terror come not o'er him,As the lion's angry broodCrouch with placid mien before him,By his holy song subdued.The father continued to accompany the verses with his flute, whilst the mother's voice was occasionally heard to intervene as second.The effect of the whole was rendered more peculiar and impressive by the child's frequently inverting the order of the verses. And if he did not, by this artifice, give a new sense and meaning to the whole, he at least highly excited the feelings of his audience:Angels o'er us mildly bendingCheer us with their voices sweetHark! what strains enchant the ear!In the cavern's dark retreatCan the prophet quake with fear?Holy accents, sweetly blending,Banish ev'ry earthly ill,Whilst an angel choir, descending,Executes the heavenly will.Then all three joined with force and emphasis:Since the eternal Eye, far-seeing,Earth and sea surveys in peace,Lion shall with lamb agreeingLive, and angry tempests cease.Warriors' sword no more shall lower,Faith and Hope their fruit shall bear:Wondrous is the mighty powerOf Love, which pours its soul in prayer.The music ceased. Silence reigned around. Each one listened attentively to the dying tones, and now only one could observe and note the general impression. Every listener was overcome, though each was affected in a different manner. The prince looked sorrowfully at his wife, as though he had only just perceived the danger which had lately threatened him; whilst she, leaning upon his arm, did not hesitate to draw forth her embroidered handkerchief to dry the starting tear. It was delightful to relieve her youthful heart from the weight of grief with which she had for some time felt oppressed. A general silence reigned around; and forgotten were the fears which all had experienced, both from the conflagration below and the appearance of the formidable lion above.The repose of the whole company was first interrupted by the prince, who made a signal to lead the horses nearer: he then turned to the woman, and addressed her thus: "You think, then, to master the lion wherever you meet him, by the power of your song, assisted by that of the child and the tones of your flute, and believe that you can thus lead him harmless and uninjured to his cage? "She protested and assured him that she would do so, whereupon a servant was ordered to show her the way to the castle. The prince and a few of his attendants now took their departure hastily; whilst the princess, accompanied by the rest, followed more slowly after. But the mother and the child, accompanied by the servant, who had armed himself with a rifle, hastened to ascend the mountain. At the very entrance of the narrow road which led to the castle, they found the hunting attendants busily employed in piling together heaps of dry brushwood to kindle a large fire."There is no necessity for such precaution," observed the woman: "all will yet turn out well."They perceived Honorio at a little distance from them, sitting upon a fragment of the wall, with his double-barreled rifle in his lap, prepared as it seemed for every emergency. But he paid little attention to the people who approached: he was absorbed in his own contemplations, and seemed engaged in deepest thought. The woman entreated that he would not permit the fire to be kindled: he, however, paid not the smallest attention to her request. She then raised her voice, and exclaimed, "Thou handsome youth who killed my tiger, I curse thee not; but spare my lion, and I will bless thee! "But Honorio was looking upon vacancy: his eyes were bent upon the sun, which had finished its daily course, and was now about to set."You are looking to the setting sun," cried the woman; "and you are right, for there is yet much to do: but hasten, delay not, and you will conquer. But, first of all conquer yourself."He seemed to smile at this observation. The woman passed on, but could not avoid looking round to observe him once more. The setting sun had cast a rosy glow upon his countenance; she thought she had never beheld so handsome a youth."If your child," said the attendant, "can, as you imagine, with his fluting and his singing, entice and tranquillise the lion, we shall easily succeed in mastering him; for the ferocious animal has lain down to sleep under the broken arch, through which we have secured a passage into the castle court, as the chief entrance has been long in ruins. Let the child, then, entice him inside, when we can close the gate without difficulty; and the child may, if he please, escape by the small winding staircase, which is situated in one of the corners. We may, in the meantime, conceal ourselves; but I shall take up a position which will enable me to assist the child at any moment with my rifle.""These preparations are all needless: Heaven, and our own skill, bravery, and good fortune, are our best defence.""But first let me conduct you by this steep ascent to the top of the tower, right opposite to the entrance of which I have spoken. The child may then descend into the arena, and there he can try to exercise his power over the obedient animal."This was done. Concealed above, the attendant and the mother surveyed the proceeding. The child descended the narrow staircase, and soon appeared in the wide courtyard. He immediately entered into the narrow opening opposite, when the sweet sounds of his flute were heard; but these gradually diminished, till they finally ceased. The pause was fearful: the solemnity of the proceeding filled the old attendant with apprehension, accustomed as he was to every sort of danger. He declared that he would rather engage the enraged animal himself. But the mother preserved her cheerful countenance, and, leaning over the parapet in a listening attitude, betrayed not the slightest sign of fear.At length the flute was heard again. The child had issued from the dark recess, his face beaming with triumph: the lion was slowly following, and seemed to walk with difficulty. Now and then the animal appeared disposed to lie down; but the child continued to lead him quietly along, bending his way through the half-leafless autumn-tinged trees, until he arrived at a spot which was illumined by the last rays of the setting sun. They were shedding their parting glory through the ruins; and in this spot he recommenced his sweet song, which we cannot refrain from repeating:Hear the prophet's song ascendingFrom the cavern's dark retreat,Whilst an angel, earthward bending,Cheers his soul with accents sweet.Fear and terror come not o'er him,As the lion's angry broodCrouch with placid mien before him,By his holy song subdued.The lion, in the meantime, had lain quietly down, and, raising his heavy paw, had placed it in the lap of the child. The latter stroked it gently, and continued his chant, but soon observed that a sharp thorn had penetrated into the ball of the animal's foot. With great tenderness, the child extracted the thorn, and, taking his bright-coloured silk handkerchief from his neck, bound it round the foot of the huge creature; whilst the attentive mother, still joyfully leaning over the parapet with outstretched arms, would probably, as was her wont, have testified her approbation with loud shouts and clapping of hands, if the attendant had not rudely seized her, and reminded her that the danger was not yet completely over.The child now joyfully continued his song, after he had hummed a few notes by way of prelude:Since the eternal Eye, far-seeing,Earth and sea surveys in peace,Lion shall with lamb agreeingLive, and angry tempests cease.Warriors' sword no more shall lower,Faith and Hope their fruit shall bear:Wondrous is the mighty powerOf Love' which pours its soul in prayer.If it were possible to conceive that the features of so fierce a monster, at once the tyrant of the forest and the despot of the animal kingdom, could display an expression of pleasure and grateful joy, it might have been witnessed upon this occasion, and, in very truth, the child, in the fulness of his beauty, looked like some victorious conqueror; though it could not be said that the lion seemed subdued, for his mighty power was only for a time concealed. He wore the aspect of a tamed creature, who had been content to make a voluntary surrender of the mighty power with which it was endued. And thus the child continued to play and to sing, transposing his verses or adding to them, as he felt inclined.Holy angels, still untiring,Aid the good and virtuous child,Every noble deed inspiring,And restraining actions wild.So the forest king to renderTame as child at parent's knee,Still be gentle, kind, and tender,Use sweet love and melody.A Fairy TaleJohann Wolfgang von GoetheWearied with the labours of the day, an old Ferryman lay asleep in his hut, on the bank of a wide river, which the late heavy rains had swollen to an unprecedented height. In the middle of the night he was awakened by a loud cry: he listened; it was the call of some travellers who wished to be ferried over.Upon opening the door, he was surprised to see two Will-o'-the-wisps dancing round his boat, which was still secured to its moorings. Speaking with human voices, they assured him that they were in the greatest possible hurry, and wished to be carried instantly to the other side of the river. Without losing a moment, the old Ferryman pushed off, and rowed across with his usual dexterity. During the passage the strangers whispered together in an unknown language, and several times burst into loud laughter; whilst they amused themselves with dancing upon the sides and seats of the boat, and cutting fantastic capers at the bottom."The boat reels," cried the old man; "and, if you continue so restless, it may upset. Sit down, you Will-o'-the-wisps."They burst into loud laughter at this command, ridiculed the boatman, and became more troublesome than ever. But he bore their annoyance patiently, and they soon reached the opposite bank of the river."Here is something for your trouble," said the passengers, shaking themselves, when a number of glittering gold pieces fell into the boat."What are you doing?" cried the old man: "some misfortune will happen should a single piece of gold fall into the water. The river, which has a strong antipathy to gold, would become fearfully agitated, and swallow both me and my boat. Who can say even what might happen to yourselves? I pray you take back your gold.""We can take nothing back which we have once shaken from our persons," answered one of them."Then, I shall be compelled," replied the old boatman, as he stooped, and collected the gold in his cap, "to take it to the shore and bury it."The Will-o'-the-wisps had in the meantime leaped out of the boat, upon which the old man cried, "Pay me my fare.""The man who refuses gold must work for nothing," answered the Will-o'-the-wisps."My payment must consist of fruits of the earth," rejoined the Ferryman."Fruits of the earth? We despise them: they are not food for us.""But you shall not depart," replied the Ferryman, "till you have given me three cauliflowers, three artichokes, and three large onions."The Will-o'-the-wisps were in the act of running away, with a laugh, when they felt themselves in some inexplicable manner fixed to the earth: they had never experienced so strange a sensation. They then promised to pay the demand without delay, upon which the Ferryman released them, and instantly pushed off with his boat.He was already far away, when they called after him, "Old man! listen: we have forgotten something important."But he heard them not, and continued his course. When he had reached a point lower down, on the same side of the river, he came to some rocks which the water was unable to reach, and proceeded to bury the dangerous gold. Observing a deep cleft which opened between two rocks, he threw the gold into it, and returned to his dwelling.This cleft was inhabited by a beautiful green Dragon, who was awakened from her sleep by the sound of the falling money. At the very first appearance of the glittering pieces, she devoured them greedily, then searched about carefully in hopes of finding such other coins as might have fallen accidentally amongst the briers, or between the fissures of the rocks.The Dragon immediately felt overpowered with the most delightful sensations, and perceived with joy that she became suddenly shining and transparent. She had been long aware that this change was possible; but, entertaining some doubt whether the brilliance would continue, she felt impelled by curiosity to leave her dwelling, and ascertain, if possible, to whom she was indebted for the beautiful gold. She found no one; but she became lost in admiration of herself, and of the brilliant light which illumined her path through the thick underwood, and shed its rays over the surrounding green. The leaves of the trees glittered like emeralds, and the flowers shone with glorious hues. In vain did she penetrate the solitary wilderness; but hope dawned when she reached the plains, and observed at a distance a light resembling her own."Have I at last discovered my fellow?" she exclaimed, and hastened to the spot.She found no obstacle from bog or morass; for though the dry meadow and the high rock were her dearest habitations, and though she loved to feed upon the spicy root, and to quench her thirst with the crystal dew, and with fresh water from the spring, yet, for the sake of her beloved gold and of her glorious light, she was willing to encounter every privation.Wearied and exhausted, she reached at length the confines of a wide morass, where our two Will-o'-the wisps were amusing themselves in playing fantastic antics. She made toward them, and, saluting them, expressed her delight at being able to claim relationship with such charming personages. The lights played around her, skipped from side to side, and laughed about in their own peculiar fashion."Dear aunt!" they exclaimed, "what does it signify, even though you are of horizontal form? We are related at least through brilliancy. But look how well a tall, slender figure becomes us gentry of the vertical shape," and, so saying, both the lights compressed their breadth together, and shot up into a thin and pointed line. "Do not be offended, dear friend," they continued, "but what family can boast of a privilege like ours? Since the first Will-o'-the-wisp was created, none of our race have ever been obliged to sit down or to take repose."But all this time the feelings of the Dragon in the presence of her relations were anything but pleasant for, exalt her head as high as she would, she was compelled to stoop to earth again when she wished to advance; and, though she was proud of the brilliancy which she shed round her own dark abode, she felt her light gradually diminish in the presence of her relatives, and began to fear that it might finally be extinguished.In her perplexity she hastily inquired whether the gentlemen could inform her whence the shining gold had come, which had lately fallen into the cleft of the rocks hard by; as in her opinion it was a precious shower from heaven. The Will-o'-the-wisps immediately shook themselves (at the same time laughing loudly), and a deluge of gold pieces at once flowed around. The Dragon devoured them greedily."We hope you like them, dear aunt," shouted the shining Will-o'-the-wisps, "we can supply you with any quantity."They shook themselves with such copious effect, that the Dragon found it difficult to swallow the bright dainties with sufficient speed. Her brilliancy increased as the gold disappeared, till at length she shone with inconceivable radiance; while in the same proportion the Will-o'-the-wisps grew thin and tapering, without, however, losing the smallest iota of their cheerful humour."I am under eternal obligations to you," said the Dragon, pausing to breathe from her voracious meal: "ask of me what you please; I will give you anything you demand.""A bargain!" answered the Will-o'-the-wisps, "tell us, then, where the beautiful Lily dwells. Lead us to her palace and gardens without delay: we die of impatience to cast ourselves at her feet.""You ask a favour," replied the Dragon, with a deep sigh, "which it is not in my power so quickly to bestow. The beautiful Lily lives, unfortunately, on the opposite bank of the river. We cannot cross over on this stormy night.""Cruel river, which separates us from the object of our desires! But cannot we call back the old Ferryman?" said they."Your wish is vain," answered the Dragon; "for, even were you to meet him on this bank, he would refuse to take you; as, though he can convey passengers to this side of the stream, he can carry no one back.""Bad news, indeed! But are there no other means of crossing the river?""There are, but not at this moment: I myself can take you over at mid-day.""That is an hour," replied the Will-o'-the-wisps, "when we do not usually travel.""Then, you had better postpone your intention till evening, when you may cross in the Giant's shadow.""How is that managed?" they inquired."The Giant," replied the Dragon, "who lives hard by, is powerless with his body: his hands are incapable of raising even a straw, his shoulders can bear no burden; but his shadow accomplishes all for him. For this reason he is most powerful at sunrise and at sunset. At the hour of evening the Giant will approach the river softly; and, if you place yourself upon his shadow, it will carry you over. Meet me at mid-day at the corner of the wood, where the trees hang over the river, when I myself will take you across, and introduce you to the beautiful Lily. Should you, however, shrink from the noonday heat, your only alternative is to apply to the Giant, when evening casts its shadows around; and he will no doubt prove obliging."With a graceful salutation the young gentlemen took their leave; and the Dragon rejoiced at their departure, partly that she might indulge her feelings of pleasure at her own light, and partly that she might satisfy a curiosity by which she had long been tormented.In the clefts of the rocks where she dwelt, she had lately made a wonderful discovery; for, although she had been obliged to crawl through these chasms in darkness, she had learned to distinguish every object by feeling. The productions of Nature, which she was accustomed everywhere to encounter, were all of an irregular kind. At one time she wound her way amongst the points of enormous crystals, at another she was for a moment impeded by the veins of solid silver, and many were the precious stones which her light discovered to her. But, to her great astonishment, she had encountered in a rock, which was securely closed on all sides' objects which betrayed the plastic hand of man. Smooth walls, which she was unable to ascend; sharp, regular angles, tapering columns and, what was even more wonderful, human figures, round which she had often entwined herself, and which appeared to her to be formed of brass or of polished marble. She was now anxious to behold all these objects with her eyes, and to confirm, by her own observation, what she had hitherto but suspected. She now thought herself capable of illumining with her own light these wonderful subterranean caverns, and indulged the hope of becoming thoroughly acquainted with these astonishing mysteries. She delayed not, and quickly found the opening through which she was accustomed to penetrate into the sanctuary.Arrived at the place, she looked round with wonder; and though her brilliancy was unable to light the entire cavern, yet many of the objects were sufficiently distinct. With astonishment and awe, she raised her eyes to an illumined niche, in which stood the statue of a venerable King, of pure gold. In size the statue was colossal, but the figure was rather that of a little than of a great man. His well-turned limbs were covered with a simple robe, and his head was encircled by an oaken garland.Scarcely had the Dragon beheld this venerable form, when the King found utterance, and said, "How comest thou hither?""Through the cleft," answered the Dragon, "in which the gold abides.""What is nobler than gold?" asked the King."Light," replied the Dragon."And what is more vivid than light?" continued the Monarch."Speech," said the Serpent.During this conversation the Dragon had looked stealthily around, and observed another noble statue in an adjoining niche. A silver King sat there enthroned, of figure tall and slender: his limbs were enveloped in an embroidered mantle; his crown and sceptre were adorned with precious stones; his countenance wore the serene dignity of pride; and he seemed about to speak, when a dark vein, which ran through the marble of the wall, suddenly became brilliant, and cast a soft light through the whole temple. This light discovered a third King, whose mighty form was cast in brass: he leaned upon a massive club, his head was crowned with laurels; and his proportions resembled a rock rather than a human being.The Dragon felt a desire to approach a fourth King, who stood before her at a distance; but the wall suddenly opened, the illumined vein hashed like lightning, and became as suddenly extinguished.A man of middle stature now approached. He was clad in the garb of a peasant: in his hand he bore a lamp, the flame of which it was delightful to behold, and which lightened the entire dwelling, without leaving the trace of a shadow."Why cost thou come, since we have already light?" asked the Golden King."You know that I can shed no ray on what is dark," replied the old man."Will my kingdom end?" inquired the Silver Monarch."Late or never," answered the other.The Brazen King then asked, with voice of thunder, "When shall I arise?""Soon," was the reply."With whom shall I be united?" continued the former."With thine elder brother," answered the latter."And what will become of the youngest?""He will repose.""I am not weary," interrupted the fourth King, with a deep but faltering voice.During this conversation the Dragon had wound her way softly through the temple, surveyed everything which it contained, and approached the niche in which the fourth King stood. He leaned against a pillar, and his handsome countenance bore traces of melancholy. It was difficult to distinguish the metal of which the statue was composed. It resembled a mixture of the three metals of which his brothers were formed, but it seemed as if the materials had not thoroughly blended; as the veins of gold and silver crossed each other irregularly through the brazen mass, and destroyed the effect of the whole.The Golden King now asked, "How many secrets dost thou know?""Three," was the reply."And which is the most important?" inquired the Silver King."The revealed," answered the old man."Wilt thou explain it to us?" asked the Brazen King."When I have learned the fourth," was the response."I care not," murmured he of the strange compound."I know the fourth," interrupted the Dragon, approaching the old man, and whispering in his ear."The time is come," exclaimed the latter, with tremendous voice. The sounds echoed through the temple; the statues rang again: and in the same instant the old man disappeared toward the west, and the Dragon toward the east; and both pierced instantly through the impediments of the rock.Every passage through which the old man bent his course became immediately filled with gold; for the lamp which he carried possessed the wonderful property of converting stones into gold, wood into silver, and dead animals into jewels. But, in order to produce this effect, it was necessary that no other light should be near. In the presence of another light the lamp merely emitted a soft illumination, which, however, gave joy to every living thing.The old man returned to his hut on the brow of the hill, and found his wife in the greatest sorrow. She was seated at the fire, her eyes filled with tears; and she refused all consolation."What a misfortune," she exclaimed, "that I allowed you to leave home today!""What has happened?" answered the old man, very quietly."You were scarcely gone," replied she with sobs, "before two rude travellers came to the door: unfortunately I admitted them; as they seemed good, worthy people. They were attired like flames, and might have passed for Will-o'-the-wisps; but they had scarcely entered the house before they commenced their flatteries, and became at length so importunate that I blush to recollect their conduct.""Well," said the old man, smiling, "the gentlemen were only amusing themselves; and, at your age, you should have considered it as the display of ordinary politeness.""My age!" rejoined the old woman. "Will you for ever remind me of my age? How old am I, then? And ordinary politeness! But I can tell you something: look round at the walls of our hut: you will now be able to see the old stones, which have been concealed for more than a hundred years. These visitors extracted all the gold more quickly than I can tell you, and they assured me that it was of capital flavour. When they had completely cleared the walls, they grew cheerful; and, in a few minutes, their persons became tall, broad, and shining. They thereupon again commenced their tricks, and repeated their flatteries, calling me a queen. They shook themselves, and immediately a profusion of gold pieces fell on all sides. You may see some of them still glittering on the Door, but a calamity soon occurred. Our dog Mops swallowed some of them; and, see, he lies dead in the chimney corner. Poor animal! His death afflicts me. I did not observe it till they had departed, otherwise I should not have promised to pay the Ferryman the debt they owed him.""How much do they owe?" inquired the old man."Three cauliflowers," answered his wife, "three artichokes, and three onions. I have promised to take them to the river at break of day.""You had better oblige them," said the old man, "and they may perhaps serve us in time of need.""I know not if they will keep their word," said she, "but they promised and vowed to serve us."The fire had, in the meantime, died away; but the old man covered the cinders with ashes, put away the shining gold pieces, and lighted his lamp afresh. In the glorious illumination the walls became covered with gold, and Mops was transformed into the most beautiful onyx that was ever beheld. The variety of colour which glittered through the costly gem produced a splendid effect."Take your basket," said the old man, "and place the onyx in it. Then collect the three cauliflowers, the three artichokes, and the three onions, lay them together, and carry them to the river. The Dragon will bear you across at mid-day: then visit the beautiful Lily; her touch will give life to the onyx, as her touch gives death to every living thing; and it will be to her an affectionate friend. Tell her not to mourn; that her deliverance is nigh; that she must consider a great misfortune as her greatest blessing, for the time is come."The old woman prepared her basket, and set forth at break of day. The rising sun shone brightly over the river, which gleamed in the far distance. The old woman journeyed slowly on, for the weight of the basket oppressed her; but it did not arise from the onyx. Nothing lifeless proved a burden; for, when the basket contained dead things, it rose aloft, and floated over her head. But a fresh vegetable, or the smallest living creature, induced fatigue. She had toiled along for some distance, when she started, and suddenly stood still; for she had nearly placed her foot upon the shadow of the Giant, which was advancing toward her from the plain. Her eye now perceived his monstrous bulk: he had just bathed in the river, and was coming out of the water. She knew not how to avoid him. He saw her, saluted her jestingly, and thrust the hand of his shadow into her basket. With dexterity he stole a cauliflower, an artichoke, and an onion, and raised them to his mouth. He then proceeded on his course up the stream, and left the woman alone.She considered whether it would not be better to return, and supply the missing vegetables from her own garden; and, lost in these reflections, she went on her way until she arrived at the bank of the river She sat down, and awaited for a long time the arrival of the Ferryman. He appeared at length, having in his boat a traveller whose air was mysterious. A handsome youth, of noble aspect, stepped on shore."What have you brought with you?" said the old man."The vegetables," replied the woman, "which the Will-o'-the-wisps owe you," pointing to the contents of her basket.But when he found that there were but two of each kind, he became angry, and refused to take them.The woman implored him to relent, assuring him that she could not then return home; as she had found her burden heavy, and she had still a long way to go. But he was obstinate, maintaining that the decision did not depend upon him."I am obliged to collect my gains for nine hours," said he, "and I can keep nothing for myself tilI I have paid a third part to the river."At length, after much contention, he told her there was still a remedy."If you give security to the river, and acknowledge your debt, I will take the six articles; though such a course is not devoid of danger.""But, if I keep my word, I incur no risk," she said earnestly."Not the least," he replied. " Thrust your hand into the river, and promise that within four and twenty hours you will pay the debt."The old woman complied, but shuddered as she observed that her hand, on drawing it out of the water had become as black as a coal. She scolded angrily; exclaiming that her hands had always been most beautiful, and that, notwithstanding her hard work, she had ever kept them white and delicate. She gazed at her hand with the greatest alarm, and exclaimed, "This is still worse: it has shrunk, and is already much smaller than the other!""It only appears so now," said the Ferryman;" but, if you break your word, it will be so in reality. Your hand will in that case grow smaller, and finally disappear; though you will still preserve the use of it.""I would rather," she replied, "lose it altogether, and that my misfortune should be concealed. But no matter, I will keep my word, to escape this black disgrace, and avoid so much anxiety."Whereupon she took her basket, which rose aloft, and floated freely over her head. She hastened after the youth, who was walking thoughtfully along the bank. His noble figure and peculiar attire had made a deep impression upon her mind.His breast was covered with a shining cuirass, whose transparency permitted the motions of his graceful form to be seen. From his shoulders hung a purple mantle, and his auburn locks waved in beautiful curls round his uncovered head. His noble countenance and his well-turned feet were exposed to the burning rays of the sun. Thus did he journey patiently over the hot sand, which, "true to one sorrow, he trod without feeling."The garrulous old woman sought to engage him in conversation; but he heeded her not, or answered briefly, until, notwithstanding his beauty, she became weary, and took leave of him, saying, "You are too slow for me, sir; and I cannot lose my time, as I am anxious to cross the river, with the assistance of the Green Dragon, and to present the beautiful Lily with my husband's handsome present."So saying, she left him speedily, upon which the youth took heart, and followed her without delay."You are going to the beautiful Lily!" he exclaimed," if so, our way lies together. What present are you taking her?""Sir," answered the woman, "it is not fair that you should so earnestly inquire after my secrets, when you paid so little attention to my questions. But, if you will relate your history to me, I will tell you all about my present."They made the bargain: the woman told her story, including the account of the dog, and allowed him to view the beautiful onyx.He lifted the beautiful precious stone from the basket, and took Mops, who seemed to slumber softly, in his arms."Fortunate animal!" he exclaimed: "you will be touched by her soft hands, and restored to life, in place of fleeing from her contact, like all other living things, to escape an evil doom. But, alas! what words are these? Is it not a sadder and more fearful fate to be annihilated by her presence than to die by her hand? Behold me, thus young, what a melancholy destiny is mine! This armour, which I have borne with glory in the battle-broil; this purple, which I have earned by the wisdom of my government, - have been converted by Fate, the one into an unceasing burden, the other into an empty honour. Crown, sceptre, and sword are worthless. I am now as naked and destitute as every other son of clay. For such is the spell of her beautiful blue eyes, that they waste the vigour of every living creature; and those whom the contact of her hand does not destroy are reduced to the condition of breathing shadows."Thus he lamented long, but without satisfying the curiosity of the old woman, who sought information respecting both his mental and his bodily sufferings She learned neither the name of his father nor his kingdom. He stroked the rigid Mops, to whom the beams of the sun and the caresses of the youth had imparted warmth. He inquired earnestly about the man with the lamp, about the effects of the mysterious light, and seemed to expect thence great relief from his deep sorrow.So discoursing, they observed at a distance the majestic arch of the bridge, which stretched from one bank of the river to the other, and shone splendidly in the beams of the sun. Both were astonished at the sight, as they had never before seen it so resplendent."What!" cried the Prince, "was it not sufficiently beautiful before, with its decorations of jasper and opal? Can we now dare to pass over it, constructed as it is of emerald and chrysolite of varied beauty?"Neither had any idea of the change which the Dragon had undergone; for in truth it was the Dragon, whose custom it was at mid-day to arch her form across the stream, and assume the appearance of a beauteous bridge, which travellers crossed with silent reverence.Scarcely had they reached the opposite bank, when the bridge began to sway from side to side, and gradually sank to the level of the water; while the Green Dragon assumed her accustomed shape, and followed the travellers to the shore. The latter thanked her for her condescension in allowing them a passage across the stream; observing, at the same time, that there were evidently more persons present than were actually visible. They heard a light whispering, which the Dragon answered with a similar sound. They listened, and heard the following words:" We will first make our observations unperceived in the park of the beautiful Lily, and look for you, when the shadows of evening fall, to introduce us to such perfect beauty. You will find us on the bank of the great lake.""Agreed," answered the Dragon; and a hissing sound died away in the air.Our three travellers further consulted with what regard to precedence they should appear before the beautiful Lily; for, let her visitors be never so numerous, they must enter and depart singly if they wished to escape bitter suffering.The woman, carrying in the basket the transformed dog, came first to the garden, and sought an interview with her benefactress. She was easily found, as she was then singing to the accompaniment of her harp. The sweet tones showed themselves first in the form of circles upon the bosom of the calm lake; and then, like a soft breeze, they imparted motion to the grass and to the tremulous leaves. She was seated in a secluded nook beneath the shade of trees, and at the first glance enchanted the eyes, the ear, and the heart of the old woman, who advanced toward her with rapture, and protested that since their last meeting she had become more beautiful than ever. Even from a distance she saluted the charming maiden in these words:"What joy to be in your presence! What a heaven surrounds you! What a spell proceeds from your lyre, which, encircled by your soft arms, and influenced by the pressure of your gentle bosom and slender fingers, utters such entrancing melody! Thrice happy the blessed youth who could claim so great a favour!"So saying, she approached nearer. The beautiful Lily raised her eyes, let her hands drop, and said, "Do not distress me with your untimely praise: it makes me feel even more unhappy. And see! Here is my beautiful canary dead at my feet, which used to accompany my songs so sweetly; he was accustomed to sit upon my harp, and was carefully instructed to avoid my touch. This morning, when, refreshed by sleep, I tuned a pleasant melody, the little warbler sang with increased harmony, when suddenly a hawk soared above us. My little bird sought refuge in my bosom, and at that instant I felt the last gasp of his expiring breath. It is true that the hawk, struck by my instantaneous glance, fell lifeless into the stream; but what avails this penalty to me?my darling is dead, and his grave will but add to the number of the weeping willows in my garden.""Take courage, beautiful Lily," interrupted the old woman, whilst at the same moment she wiped away a tear which the narration of the sorrowful maiden had brought to her eye,"take courage, and learn from my experience to moderate your grief. Great misfortune is often the harbinger of intense joy. For the time approaches: but in truth," continued she, "'the web of life is of a mingled yarn.' See my hand, how black it has grown; and, in truth, it has become much diminished in size: I must be speedy, before it be reduced to nothing. Why did I promise favours to the Will-o'-the-wisps, or meet the Giant, or dip my hand into the river? Can you oblige me with a cauliflower, an artichoke, or an onion? I shall take them to the river, and then my hand will become so white that it will almost equal the lustre of your own.""Cauliflowers and onions abound, but artichokes cannot be procured. My garden produces neither flowers nor fruit; but every twig I plant upon the grave of anything I love bursts into leaf at once, and grows a goodly tree. Thus, beneath my eye, alas, have grown these clustering trees and copses. These tall pines, these shadowing cypresses, these mighty oaks, these overhanging beeches, were once small twigs planted by my hand, as sad memorials, in an ungenial soil."The old woman paid but little attention to this speech, but was employed in watching her hand, which in the presence of the beautiful Lily became every instant of a darker hue, and grew gradually less. She was about to take her basket and depart, when she felt that she had forgotten the most important of her duties. She took the transformed dog in her arms, and laid him upon the grass, not far from the beautiful Lily."My husband," she said, "sends you this present. You know that your touch can impart life to this precious stone. The good and faithful animal will be a joy to you, and the grief his loss causes me will be alleviated by the thought that he is yours."The beautiful Lily looked at the pretty creature with delight, and rapture beamed from her eyes."Many things combine to inspire me with hope; but, alas! is it not a delusion of our nature to expect that joy is near when grief is at the worst?"Ah I what avail these omens all so fair?My sweet bird's death, my friend's hands blackly dyed,And Mops transformed into a jewel rare,Sent by the Lamp our faltering steps to guide.Far from mankind and every joy I prize,To grief and sorrow I am still allied:When from the river will the temple rise?When will the bridge span it from side to side?The old woman waited with impatience for the conclusion of the song, which the beautiful Lily had accompanied with her harp, entrancing the ears of every listener. She was about to say farewell, when the arrival of the Dragon compelled her to remain. She had heard the last words of the song, and on this account spoke words of encouragement to the beautiful Lily."The prophecy of the bridge is fulfilled!" she exclaimed, "this good woman will bear witness how splendidly the arch now appears. Formerly of untransparent jasper, which only reflected the light upon the sides, it is now converted into precious jewels of transparent hue. No beryl is so bright, and no emerald so splendid.""I congratulate you thereupon," said the Lily, "but pardon me if I doubt whether the prediction is fulfilled. Only foot-passengers can as yet cross the arch of your bridge; and it has been foretold that horses and carriages, travellers of all descriptions, shall pass and repass in mingled multitudes. Is prediction silent with respect to the mighty pillars which are to ascend from the river?"The old woman, whose eyes were fixed immovably upon her hand, interrupted this speech, and bade farewell."Wait for one moment," said the beautiful Lily, "and take my poor canary-bird with you. Implore the Lamp to convert him into a topaz; and I will then reanimate him with my touch, and he and your good Mops will then be my greatest consolation. But make what speed you can; for with sunset decay will have commenced its withering influence, marring the beauty of its delicate form."The old woman enveloped the little corpse in some soft young leaves, placed it in the basket, and hastened from the spot."Notwithstanding what you say," continued the Dragon, resuming the interrupted conversation, "the temple is built.""But it does not yet stand upon the river," replied the beautiful Lily."It rests still in the bowels of the earth," continued the Dragon. " I have seen the Kings, and spoken to them.""And when will they awake?" inquired the Lily.The Dragon answered, "I heard the mighty voice resound through the temple, announcing that the hour was come."A ray of joy beamed from the countenance of the beautiful Lily as she exclaimed, "Do I hear those words for the second time to-day? When will the hour arrive in which I shall hear them for the third time?"She rose, and immediately a beautiful maiden came from the wood, and relieved her of her harp. She was followed by another, who took the ivory chair upon which the beautiful Lily had been seated, folded it together, and carried it away, together with the silver-tissued cushion. The third maiden, who bore in her hand a fan inlaid with pearls, approached to tender her services if they should be needed. These three maidens were lovely beyond description, though they were compelled to acknowledge that their charms fell far short of those of their beautiful mistress.The beautiful Lily had, in the meantime, surveyed the marvellous Mops with a look of pleasure. She leaned over him, and touched him. He instantly leaped up, looked round joyously, bounded with delight, hastened to his benefactress, and caressed her tenderly. She took him in her arms, and pressed him to her bosom."Cold though thou art," she said, "and endued with only half a life, yet art thou welcome to me. I will love thee fondly, play with thee sportively, kiss thee softly, and press thee to my heart."She let him go a little from her, called him back, chased him away again, and played with him so joyously and innocently, that no one could help sympathising in her delight and taking part in her pleasure, as they had before shared her sorrow and her woe.But this happiness and this pleasant pastime were interrupted by the arrival of the melancholy youth. His walk and appearance were as we have before described; but he seemed overcome by the heat of the day, and the presence of his beloved had rendered him perceptibly paler. He bore the hawk upon his wrist, where it sat with drooping wing as tranquil as a dove."It is not well," exclaimed the Lily, "that you should vex my eyes with that odious bird, which has only this day murdered my little favourite.""Blame not the luckless bird," exclaimed the youth," rather condemn yourself and fate, and let me find an associate in this companion of my grief."Mops, in the meantime, was incessant in his caresses; and the Lily responded to his affection with the most gentle tokens of love. She clapped her hands to drive him away, and then sportively pursued to win him back. She caught him in her arms as he tried to escape, and chased him from her when he sought to nestle in her lap. The youth looked on in silence and in sorrow; but when at length she took him in her arms, and pressed him to her snowy breast, and kissed him with her heavenly lips, he lost all patience, and exclaimed in the depth of his despair, "And must I, whom a sad destiny compels to live in your presence) and yet to be separated from you, perhaps for ever, - must I, who for you have forfeited everything, even my own being, - must I look on and behold this 'defect of nature' gain your notice, win your love, and enjoy the paradise of your embrace? Must I continue to wander and measure my solitary way along the banks of this stream? No! A spark of my former spirit still burns within my bosom. Oh that it would for the last time mount into a flame! If stones may repose within your bosom, then let me be converted to a stone; and, if your touch can kill, I am content to receive my death at your hands."He became violently excited; the hawk flew from his wrist; he rushed toward the beautiful Lily; she extended her arms to forbid his approach, and touched him undesignedly. His consciousness immediately forsook him, and with dismay she felt the beautiful burden lean for support upon her breast. She started back with a scream, and the fair youth sank lifeless from her arms to the earth.The deed was done. The sweet Lily stood motionless, and gazed intently on the breathless corpse. Her heart ceased to beat, and her eyes were bedewed with tears. In vain did Mops seek to win her attention: the whole world had died out with her lost friend. Her dumb despair sought no help, for help was now in vain.But the Dragon became immediately more active. Her mind seemed occupied with thoughts of rescue; and, in truth, her mysterious movements prevented the immediate consequence of this dire misfortune. She wound her serpentine form in a wide circle round the spot where the body lay, seized the end of her tail between her teeth, and remained motionless.In a few moments one of the servants of the beautiful Lily approached, carrying the ivory chair, and with friendly entreaties compelled her mistress to be seated. Then came a second, bearing a flame-coloured veil, with which she rather adorned than covered the head of the Lily. A third maiden offered her the harp; and scarcely had she struck the chords, and awakened their delicious tones, when the first maiden returned, having in her hands a circular mirror of lustrous brightness placed herself opposite the Lily, intercepted her looks, and reflected the most enchanting countenance which nature could fashion. Her sorrow added lustre to her beauty, the veil heightened her charms, the harp lent her a new grace; and, though it was impossible not to hope that her sad fate might soon undergo a change, one could almost wish that that lovely and enchanting vision might last for ever.Silently gazing upon the mirror, she drew melting tones of music from her harp; but her sorrow appeared to increase, and the chords responded to her melancholy mood. Once or twice she opened her lips to sing, but her voice refused utterance; whereupon her grief found refuge in tears. Her two attendants supported her in their arms, and the harp fell from her hands; but the watchful attention of her handmaid caught it, and laid it aside."Who will fetch the man with the lamp?" whispered the Dragon in low but audible voice. The maidens looked at each other, and the Lily's tears fell faster.At this instant the old woman with the basket returned breathless with agitation."I am lost and crippled for life!" she exclaimed. " Look! My hand is nearly withered. Neither the Ferryman nor the Giant would set me across the river, because I am indebted to the stream. In vain did I tempt them with a hundred cauliflowers and a hundred onions: they insist upon the stipulated three, and not an artichoke can be found in this neighbourhood.""Forget your distress," said the Dragon, "and give your assistance here; perhaps you will be relieved at the same time. Hasten, and find out the Will-o'-the-wisps; for, though you cannot see them by daylight, you may, perhaps, hear their laughter and their motions. If you make good speed, the Giant may yet transport you across the river, and you may find the man with the lamp and send him hither."The old woman made as much haste as possible, and the Dragon showed as much impatience for her return as the Lily. But, sad to say, the golden rays of the setting sun were shedding their last beams upon the highest tops of the trees, and lengthening the mountain shadows over lake and meadow. The motions of the Dragon showed increased impatience, and the Lily was dissolved in tears.In this moment of distress the Dragon looked anxiously round: she feared every instant that the sun would set, and that decay would penetrate within the magic circle, and exert its fell influence upon the corpse of the beautiful youth. She looked into the heavens, and caught sight of the purple wings and breast of the hawk, which were illumined by the last rays of the sun. Her restlessness betrayed her joy at the good omen; and she was not deceived, for instantly afterward she saw the man with the lamp sliding across the lake as if he had skates on his feet.The Dragon did not alter her position; but the Lily, rising from her seat, exclaimed, "What good spirit has sent you thus opportunely when you are so much longed for and required?""The Spirit of my Lamp impels me," replied the old man, "and the hawk conducts me hither. The lamp flickers when I am needed; and I immediately look to the heavens for a sign, when some bird or meteor points the way I should go. Be tranquil, beautiful maiden: I know not if I can help you; one alone can do but little, but he can avail who in the proper hour unites his strength with others. We must wait and hope."Then turning to the Dragon, he said, "Keep your circle closed ;" and, seating himself upon a hillock at his side, he shed a light upon the corpse of the youth. "Now bring the little canary-bird," he continued, "and lay it also within the circle."The maiden took the little creature from the basket, and followed the directions of the old man.The sun had set in the meantime; and, as the shades of evening closed around, not only the Dragon and the Lamp cast their customary light, but the veil of the Lily was illumined with a soft brilliancy, and caused her pale cheeks and her white robe to beam like the dawn of morning, and clothed her with inexpressible grace. They gazed at each other with silent emotions: anxiety and sorrow were softened by hope of approaching happiness.To the delight of all, the old woman appeared with the lively Will-o'-the-wisps, who must have led a prodigal life of late, for they looked wonderfully thin, but behaved all the more politely to the princess and the other young ladies. With an air of confidence, and much force of expression, they discoursed upon ordinary topics, and were much struck by the charm which the shining veil shed over the beautiful Lily and her companions. The young ladies cast down their eyes with modest looks, and their beauty was heightened by the praise it called forth. Every one was happy and contented, not excepting even the old woman. Notwithstanding the assurance of her husband that her hand would not continue to wither whilst the Lamp shone upon it, she continued to assert, that, it things went on thus, it would disappear entirely before midnight.The old man with the lamp had listened attentively to the speech of the Will-o'-the-wisps, and was charmed to observe that the beautiful Lily was pleased and flattered with their compliments. Midnight had actually come before they were aware. The old man looked up to the stars, and spoke thus:" We are met at a fortunate hour; let each fulfil his office, let each discharge his duty; and a general happiness will alleviate one individual trouble, as a universal sorrow destroys particular joys."After these observations a mysterious murmur arose; for every one present spoke for himself, and mentioned what he had to do: the three maidens alone were silent. One had fallen asleep near the harp, the other beside the fan, and the third leaning against the ivory chair: and no one could blame them; for, in truth, it was late. The Will-o'-the-wisps, after paying some trivial compliments to the other ladies, including even the attendants, attached themselves finally to the Lily, by whose beauty they were attracted."Take the mirror," said the old man to the hawk, "and illumine the fair sleepers with the first beams of the sun, and rouse them from their slumbers by the light reflected from heaven."The Dragon now began to move: she broke up the circle, and in long windings moved slowly to the river. The Will-o'-the-wisps followed her in solemn procession, and they might have been mistaken for the most serious personages. The old woman and her husband took up the basket, the soft light of which had hitherto been scarcely observed; but it now became clearer and more brilliant. They laid the body of the youth within it, with the canary-bird reposing upon his breast, upon which the basket raised itself into the air, and floated over the head of the old woman; and she followed the steps of the Will-o'-the-wisps. The beautiful Lily, taking Mops in her arms, walked after the old woman; and the man with the lamp closed the procession.The whole neighbourhood was brilliantly illuminated with all these various lights. They all observed with astonishment, on approaching the river, that it was spanned by a majestic arch, whereby the benevolent Dragon had prepared them a lustrous passage across. The transparent jewels of which the bridge was composed were objects of no less astonishment by day than was their wondrous brilliancy by night. The clear arch above cut sharply against the dark sky; whilst vivid rays of light beneath shone against the key-stone, revealing the firm pliability of the structure. The procession moved slowly over; and the Ferryman, who witnessed the proceeding from his hut, surveyed the brilliant arch with awe, no less than the wondrous lights as they journeyed across it.As soon as they had reached the opposite bank, the bridge began to contract as usual, and sink to the surface of the water. The Dragon made her way to the shore, and the basket descended to the ground. The Dragon now once more assumed a circular shape; and the old man, bowing before her, asked what she had determined to do."To sacrifice myself before I am made a sacrifice; only promise me that you will leave no stone on the land."The old man promised, and then addressed the beautiful Lily thus: "Touch the Dragon with your left hand, and your lover with your right."The beautiful Lily knelt down, and laid her hands upon the Dragon and the corpse. In an instant the latter became endued with life: he moved, and then sat upright. The Lily wished to embrace him; but the old man held her back, and assisted the youth whilst he led him beyond the limits of the circle.The youth stood erect, the little canary fluttered upon his shoulder, but his mind was not yet restored. His eyes were open; but he saw, at least he appeared to look on, everything with indifference. Scarcely was the wonder at this circumstance appeased, when the change which the Dragon had undergone excited attention. Her beautiful and slender form was converted into thousands and thousands of precious stones. The old woman, in the effort to seize her basket, had struck unintentionally against her, after which nothing more was seen of the figure of the Dragon. Only a heap of brilliant jewels lay in the grass.The old man immediately set to work to collect them into his basket, a task in which he was assisted by his wife. They both then carried the basket to an elevated spot on the bank, when he cast the entire contents into the stream, not, however, without the opposition of his wife and of the beautiful Lily, who would willingly have appropriated a portion of the treasure to themselves. The jewels gleamed in the rippling waters like brilliant stars, and were carried away by the stream; and none can say whether they disappeared in the distance or sank to the bottom."Young gentlemen," then said the old man respectfully to the Will-o'-the-wisps, "I will now point out your path, and lead the way; and you will render us the greatest service by opening the doors of the temple through which we must enter, and which you alone can unlock."The Will-o'-the-wisps bowed politely, and took their post in the rear. The man with the lamp advanced first into the rocks, which opened of their own accord; the youth followed with apparent indifference; with silent uncertainty the beautiful Lily lingered slowly behind; the old woman, unwilling to be left alone, followed after, stretching out her hand that it might receive the rays of her husband's lamp; the procession was closed by the Will-o'-the-wisps, and their bright flames nodded and blended with each other as if they were engaged in active conversation.They had not gone far before they came to a large brazen gate which was fastened by a golden lock. The old man thereupon sought the assistance of the Will-o'-the-wisps, who did not want to be entreated, but at once introduced their pointed flames into the lock, when the wards yielded to their influence.The brass resounded as the doors flew wide asunder, and displayed the venerable statues of the kings illuminated by the advancing lights. Each individual in turn bowed to the reverend potentates with respect, and the Will-o-the-wisps were prodigal of their lambent salutations.After a short pause the Golden King asked, "whence do you come?""From the world," answered the old man."And whither are you going?" inquired the Silver King."Back to the world," was the answer."And what do you wish with us?" asked the Brazen King."To accompany you," responded the old man.The fourth king was about to speak, when the golden statue thus addressed the Will-o'-the-wisps, who had advanced toward him: "Depart from me. My gold is not for you."They then turned toward the Silver King, and his apparel assumed the golden hue of their yellow flames. "You are welcome," he said, "but I cannot feed you. Satisfy yourselves elsewhere, and then bring me your light."They departed; and, stealing unobserved past the Brazen King, they attached themselves to the King composed of various metals."Who will rule the world?" inquired the latter in inarticulate tones."He who stands erect," answered the old man."That is I," replied the King."Then it will be revealed," said the old man, "for the time is come."The beautiful Lily fell upon his neck, and kissed him tenderly."Kind father," she said, "a thousand thanks for allowing me to hear this comforting word for the third time."So saying, she felt compelled to grasp the old man's arm; for the earth began to tremble beneath them: the old woman and the youth clung to each other, whilst the pliant Will-o'-the-wisps felt not the slightest inconvenience.It was evident that the whole temple was in motion; and, like a ship which pursues its quiet way from the harbour when the anchor is raised, the depths of the earth seemed to open before it, whilst it clove its way through. It encountered no obstacle, no rock opposed its progress.Presently a very fine rain penetrated through the cupola. The old man continued to support the beautiful Lily, and whispered, "We are now under the river, and shall soon attain the goal."Presently they thought the motion ceased; but they were deceived, the temple still moved onwards.A strange sound was now heard above them: beams and broken rafters burst in disjointed fragments through the opening of the cupola. The Lily and the old woman retreated in alarm; the man with the lamp stood by the youth, and encouraged him to remain. The Ferryman's little hut had been ploughed from the ground by the advance of the temple, and, in its gradual fall, buried the youth and the old man.The women screamed in alarm, and the temple shook like a vessel which strikes upon a hidden rock. Anxiously the women wandered round the hut in darkness; the doors were shut, and no one answered their knocking. They continued to knock more loudly, when at last the wood began to ring with sounds: the magic power of the lamp, which was enclosed within the hut, changed it into silver, and presently its very form was altered; for the noble metal, refusing to assume the form of planks, posts, and rafters, was converted into a glorious building of artistic workmanship: it seemed as if a smaller temple had grown up within the large one or at least an altar worthy of its beauty.The noble youth ascended a staircase in the interior, whilst the man with the lamp shed light upon his way; and another figure lent him support, clad in a short white garment, and holding in his hand a silver rudder: it was easy to recognise the Ferryman, the former inhabitant of the transformed hut.The beautiful Lily ascended the outward steps which led from the temple to the altar, but was compelled to remain separated from her lover. The old woman, whose hand continued to grow smaller whilst the light of the lamp was obscured, exclaimed, "Am I still doomed to be unhappy amid so many miracles? will no miracle restore my hand?"Her husband pointed to the open door, exclaiming, " See, the day dawns! Hasten, and bathe in the river!""What advice!" she answered: "shall I not become wholly black, and dissolve into nothing for I have not yet discharged my debt.""Be silent," said the old man, "and follow me: all debts are wiped away."The old woman obeyed, and in the same instant the light of the rising sun shone upon the circle of the cupola. Then the old man, advancing between the youth and the maiden, exclaimed with a loud voice, "Three things have sway upon the earth, - Wisdom, Appearance, and Power."At the sound of the first word the Golden King arose; at the sound of the second, the Silver King; and the Brazen King had risen at the sound of the third, when the fourth suddenly sunk awkwardly to the earth.The Will-o'-the-wisps, who had been busily employed upon him till this moment, now retreated: though paled by the light of the morning, they seemed in good condition, and sufficiently brilliant; for they had with much dexterity extracted the gold from the veins of the colossal statue with their sharp-pointed tongues. The irregular spaces which were thus displayed remained for some time exposed and the figure preserved its previous form; but when at length the most secret veins of gold had been extracted, the statue suddenly fell with a crash, and formed a mass of shapeless ruins.The man with the lamp conducted the youth, whose eye was still fixed upon vacancy, from the altar toward the Brazen King. At the foot of the mighty monarch lay a sword in a brazen sheath. The youth bound it to his side."Take the weapon in your left hand, and keep the right hand free," exclaimed the King.They then advanced to the Silver Monarch, who bent his sceptre toward the youth; the latter seized it with his left hand: and the King addressed him in soft accents, "Feed my sheep."When they reached the statue of the Golden King with paternal benediction the latter pressed the oaken garland on the head of the youth, and said, "Acknowledge the highest."The old man had, during this proceeding, watched the youth attentively. After he had girded on the sword, his breast heaved, his arm was firmer, and his step more erect; and, after he had touched the sceptre his sense of power appeared to soften, and at the same time, by an inexpressible charm, to become more mighty; but, when his waving locks were adorned with the oaken garland, his countenance became animated, his soul beamed from his eye; and the first word he uttered was "Lily!""Dear Lily!" he exclaimed, as he hastened to ascend the silver stairs, for she had observed his progress from the altar where she stood, "dear Lily, what can man desire more blessed than the innocence and the sweet affection which your love brings me? O my friend!" he continued, turning to the old man, and pointing to the three sacred statues, "secure and glorious is the kingdom of our fathers; but you have forgotten to enumerate that fourth power, which exercises an earlier, more universal, and certain rule over the world, - the power of love."With these words he flung his arms round the neck of the beautiful maiden: she had cast aside her veil, and her cheeks were tinged with a blush of the sweetest and most inexpressible beauty.The old man now observed, with a smile, "Love does not rule, but controls; and that is better."During all this delight and enchantment no one had observed that the sun was now high in heaven; and through the open gates of the temple most unexpected objects were perceived. An empty space, of large dimensions, was surrounded by pillars, and terminated by a long and splendid bridge, whose many arches stretched across the river. On each side was a footpath, wide and convenient for passengers, of whom many thousands were busily employed in crossing over: the wide road in the centre was crowded with flocks and herds, and horsemen and carriages; and all streamed over without impeding each other's progress. All were in raptures at the union of convenience and beauty; and the new king and his spouse were as much charmed with the animation and activity of this great concourse as they were with their own reciprocal love."Honour the Dragon," said the man with the lamp:" to her you are indebted for life, and your people for the bridge whereby these neighbouring shores are animated and connected. Those shining precious stones which still float by are the remains of her self-sacrifice, and form the foundation-stones of this glorious bridge, upon which she has erected herself to subsist, for ever."The approach of four beautiful maidens, who advanced to the door of the temple, prevented any inquiry into this wonderful mystery. Three of them were recognised as the attendants of the beautiful Lily, by the harp, the fan, and the ivory chair; but the fourth, though more beautiful than the other three was a stranger. She, however, played with the others with sisterly sportiveness, ran with them through the temple, and ascended the silver stairs."Thou dearest of creatures," said the man with the lamp, addressing the beautiful Lily, "you will surely believe me for the future. Happy for thee, and every other creature, who shall bathe this morning in the waters of the river!"The old woman, who had been transformed into a beautiful young girl, and of whose former appearance no trace remained, embraced the man with the lamp with tender caresses, which he returned with affection."If I am too old for you," he said with a smile, "you may select another bridegroom; for no tie can henceforth be considered binding which is not this day renewed.""But are you not aware that you also have become young?" she inquired."I am delighted to hear it," he replied. "If I appear to you to be a gallant youth, I take your hand anew, and hope for a thousand years of happiness."The Queen welcomed her new friend, and advanced with her and the rest of her companions to the altar whilst the King, supported by the two men, pointed to the bridge, and surveyed with wonder the crowd of passengers.But his joy was soon overshadowed by observing an object which gave him pain. The Giant, who had just awakened from his morning sleep, stumbled over the bridge, and gave rise to the greatest confusion. He was, as usual, but half awake, and had risen with the intention of bathing in the neighbouring cove; but he stumbled instead upon firm land, and found himself feeling his way upon the broad highway of the bridge. And, whilst he went clumsily along in the midst of men and animals, his presence, though a matter of astonishment to all, was felt by none; but when the sun shone in his eyes, and he raised his hand to shade them, the shadow of his enormous fist fell amongst the crowd with such careless violence, that both men and animals huddled together in promiscuous confusion, and either sustained personal injury, or ran the risk of being driven into the water.The King, observing this calamity, with an involuntary movement placed his hand upon his sword, but, upon reflection, turned his eyes on his sceptre, and then on the lamp and the rudder of his companions."I guess your thought," said the man with the lamp, "but we are powerless against this monster: be tranquil; he injures for the last time, and happily his shadow is turned from us."In the meantime the Giant had approached, and, overpowered with astonishment at what he saw, let his hands sink down: he became powerless for injury, and, gazing with surprise, entered the courtyard.He was moving straight toward the door of the temple, when he felt himself suddenly held fast to the earth. He stood like a colossal pillar constructed of red, shining stones; and his shadow indicated the hours, which were marked in a circle on the ground, not, however, in figures, but in noble and significant effigies.The King was not a little delighted to see the shadow of the monster rendered harmless; and the Queen was not less astonished, as she advanced from the altar with her maidens, all adorned with the greatest magnificence, to observe the strange wonder which almost covered the whole prospect from the temple to the bridge.In the meantime the people had crowded after the Giant, and, surrounding him as he stood still, had observed his transformation with the utmost awe. They thence bent their steps toward the temple, of the existence of which they now seemed to be for the first time aware, and thronged the doorways.The hawk was now observed aloft, towering over the building, and carrying the mirror, with which he caught the light of the sun, and turned the rays upon the multifarious group which stood around the altar. The King, the Queen and their attendants, illumined by heavenly light, appeared beneath the dim arches of the temple: their subjects fell prostrate before them. When they had recovered, and risen again, the King and his attendants had descended to the altar, in order to reach his palace by a less obstructed path; and the people dispersed through the temple to satisfy their curiosity. They beheld with astonishment the three kings, who stood erect, and were all the more anxious to know what could be concealed behind the curtain in the fourth niche; since, whatever kindness might have prompted the deed, a thoughtful discretion had extended a costly covering over the ruins of the fallen king, which no eye cared to penetrate, and no profane hand dared to uplift.There was no end to the astonishment and wonder of the people, and the dense throng would have been crushed in the temple if their attention had not been attracted once more to the court without.To their great surprise, a shower of gold pieces fell as if from the air, resounding upon the marble pavement, and caused a contest and commotion amongst the passers-by. Several times this wonder was repeated in different places, at some distance from each other. It is not difficult to infer that this feat was the work of the retreating Will-o'-the-wisps, who having extracted the gold from the limbs of the mutilated king, dispersed it abroad in this joyous manner. The covetous crowd continued their contentions for some time longer, pressing hither and thither, and inflicting wounds upon each other, till the shower of gold pieces ceased to fall. The multitude at length dispersed gradually, each one pursuing his own course; and the bridge, to this day, continues to swarm with travellers; and the temple is the most frequented in the world.